   [tr?id=941461885905615&ev=PageView &noscript=1]

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TX8MMPFV

   itemscope itemtype="http://bib.schema.org/Book"

Pride and Prejudice

   Pride and Prejudice
    1. Chapter I
    2. Chapter II
    3. Chapter III
    4. Chapter IV
    5. Chapter V
    6. Chapter VI
    7. Chapter VII
    8. Chapter VIII
    9. Chapter IX
   10. Chapter X
   11. Chapter XI
   12. Chapter XII
   13. Chapter XIII
   14. Chapter XIV
   15. Chapter XV
   16. Chapter XVI
   17. Chapter XVII
   18. Chapter XVIII
   19. Chapter XIX
   20. Chapter XX
   21. Chapter XXI
   22. Chapter XXII
   23. Chapter XXIII
   24. Chapter XXIV
   25. Chapter XXV
   26. Chapter XXVI
   27. Chapter XXVII
   28. Chapter XXVIII
   29. Chapter XXIX
   30. Chapter XXX
   31. Chapter XXXI
   32. Chapter XXXII
   33. Chapter XXXIII
   34. Chapter XXXIV
   35. Chapter XXXV
   36. Chapter XXXVI
   37. Chapter XXXVII
   38. Chapter XXXVIII
   39. Chapter XXXIX
   40. Chapter XL
   41. Chapter XLI
   42. Chapter XLII
   43. Chapter XLIII
   44. Chapter XLIV
   45. Chapter XLV
   46. Chapter XLVI
   47. Chapter XLVII
   48. Chapter XLVIII
   49. Chapter XLVIX
   50. Chapter L
   51. Chapter LI
   52. Chapter LII
   53. Chapter LIII
   54. Chapter LIV
   55. Chapter LV
   56. Chapter LVI
   57. Chapter LVII
   58. Chapter LVIII
   59. Chapter LIX
   60. Chapter LX
   61. Chapter LXI

Text Size

     *
     *
     *

Font

     * Georgia
     * Helvetica
     * Verdana
     * Trebuchet MS
     * Adelle

Line Spacing

     *
     *
     *

Column Width

     *
     *
     *

Text Alignment

     *
     *

Reading Mode

     *
     *
     *

   close

   close

   close

   close

Chapter I

   IT IS A TRUTH universally acknowledged that a single man in possession
   of a good fortune must be in want of a wife.

   However little known the feelings or views of such a man may be on his
   first entering a neighborhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds
   of the surrounding families, that he is considered as the rightful
   property of some one or other of their daughters.

   “My dear Mr. Bennet,” said his lady to him one day, “have you heard
   that Netherfield Park is let at last?”

   Mr. Bennet replied that he had not. “But it is,” returned she, “for
   Mrs. Long has just been here, and she told me all about it.”

   Mr. Bennet made no answer.

   “Do you not want to know who has taken it?” cried his wife,
   impatiently.

   “You want to tell me, and I have no objection to hearing it.”

   This was invitation enough.

   “Why, my dear, you must know, Mrs. Long says that Netherfield is taken
   by a young man of large fortune from the north of England; that he came
   down on Monday in a chaise-and-four to see the place, and was so much
   delighted with it that he agreed with Mr. Morris immediately; that he
   is to take possession before Michaelmas, and some of his servants are
   to be in the house by the end of next week.”

   “What is his name?”

   “Bingley.”

   “Is he married or single?”

   “Oh, single, my dear, to be sure! A single man of large fortune—four or
   five thousand a year. What a fine thing for our girls!”

   “How so? How can it affect them?”

   “My dear Mr. Bennet,” replied his wife, “how can you be so tiresome?
   You must know that I am thinking of his marrying one of them.”

   “Is that his design in settling here?”

   “Design? nonsense, how can you talk so! But it is very likely that he
   may fall in love with one of them, and therefore you must visit him as
   soon as he comes.”

   “I see no occasion for that. You and the girls may go, or you may send
   them by themselves, which perhaps will be still better; for as you are
   as handsome as any of them, Mr. Bingley may like you the best of the
   party.”

   “My dear, you flatter me. I certainly have had my share of beauty, but
   I do not pretend to be anything extraordinary now. When a woman has
   five grownup daughters, she ought to give over thinking of her own
   beauty.”

   “In such cases a woman has not often much beauty to think of.”

   “But, my dear, you must indeed go and see Mr. Bingley when he comes
   into the neighborhood.”

   “It is more than I engage for, I assure you.”

   “But consider your daughters. Only think what an establishment it would
   be for one of them! Sir William and Lady Lucas are determined to go,
   merely on that account; for in general, you know, they visit no
   new-comers. Indeed, you must go, for it will be impossible for us to
   visit him, if you do not.”

   “You are over-scrupulous, surely. I dare say Mr. Bingley will be very
   glad to see you; and I will send a few lines by you to assure him of my
   hearty consent to his marrying whichever he chooses of the girls;
   though I must throw in a good word for my little Lizzy.”

   “I desire you will do no such thing. Lizzy is not a bit better than the
   others; and I am sure she is not half so handsome as Jane, nor half so
   good-humored as Lydia. But you are always giving her the preference.”

   “They have none of them much to recommend them,” replied he. “They are
   all silly and ignorant like other girls; but Lizzy has something more
   of quickness than her sisters.”

   “Mr. Bennet, how can you abuse your own children in such a way? You
   take delight in vexing me. You have no compassion on my poor nerves.”

   “You mistake me, my dear. I have a high respect for your nerves. They
   are my old friends. I have heard you mention them with consideration
   these twenty years at least.”

   “Ah, you do not know what I suffer!”

   “But I hope you will get over it, and live to see many young men of
   four thousand a year come into the neighborhood.”

   “It will be no use to us if twenty such should come, since you will not
   visit them.”

   “Depend upon it, my dear, that when there are twenty I will visit them
   all.” Mr. Bennet was so odd a mixture of quick tarts, sarcastic humor,
   reserve, and caprice, that the experience of three-and-twenty years had
   been insufficient to make his wife understand his character. Her mind
   was less difficult to develop. She was a woman of mean understanding,
   little information, and uncertain temper. When she was discontented,
   she fancied herself nervous. The business of her life was to get her
   daughters married; its solace was visiting and news.
   Chapter II

Footnotes

    1. Having “poor nerves” in this case suggests that Mrs. Bennet is
       inclined to have panic attacks; however, she clearly uses her
       nervousness to control other people. If things do not go her way,
       she becomes something of a hypochondriac who suffers from more than
       just anxiety: “‘Ah,” as she says to Mr. Bennet, “‘you do not know
       what I suffer!’” To her, nervousness is almost a sort of illness.
       She uses this “illness” to manipulate others because she expects
       them to do whatever it takes to make her feel better.
       — Sarah, Owl Eyes Staff
    2. “Abuse” in this case means speaking against or putting down as
       opposed to physical abuse. Of course, Mrs. Bennet is being
       hypocritical; though Mr. Bennet has openly favored Elizabeth over
       his other daughters, Mrs. Bennet has just done the same thing by
       favoring Jane and Lydia.
       — Sarah, Owl Eyes Staff
    3. Mr. Bennet is being prideful but not as obviously as Mrs. Bennet.
       His refusal to take Mrs. Bennet seriously suggests that he feels he
       is above (or too good for) his wife’s concerns. When she urges him
       to visit Mr. Bingley for the sake of his daughters, he tells her
       that she and the girls should go on their own—which would have been
       quite scandalous—and jokes that Mr. Bingley would probably prefer
       Mrs. Bennet.
       — Sarah, Owl Eyes Staff
    4. The themes of pride and prejudice have already begun to take shape
       in Mrs. Bennet’s character by the end of the first chapter. For
       example, she exhibits prideful behavior when she implies that her
       daughters are more deserving of Mr. Bingley than other eligible
       daughters in the neighborhood. She is also being prejudicial
       because she believes other girls, such as the Lucases, are inferior
       to her daughters—though she doesn’t have any real reason for
       thinking this way.
       — Sarah, Owl Eyes Staff
    5. “Bingley” is the name of one of a town in northern England that
       prospered during the Industrial Revolution.Though we are not told
       whether Mr. Bingley comes from Bingley the town, his name strongly
       associates him with the growth of industrial manufacturing. This
       further supports our identification of the Bingleys with the
       nouveau riche (newly rich people who made their fortunes from
       trade) because they probably made their money from manufacturing.
       — Sarah, Owl Eyes Staff
    6. Austen may have chosen the name “Netherfield” because the Bingleys
       are not truly aristocratic. They acquired wealth through trade, so
       they would have been considered nouveau riche: newly rich people
       who are not actually part of the aristocracy (the highest social
       class besides royalty). The nouveau riche were controversial in
       Austen’s time because, though they had a lot of money, they were
       not members of the noble landed gentry that passed down their
       wealth over centuries.
       — Sarah, Owl Eyes Staff
    7. Netherfield Park is a fictional estate located in Hertfordshire, a
       county just north of London. “Nether” means “lower” or “lower in
       position,” so it’s a strange choice for a wealthy man like Mr.
       Bingley.
       — Sarah, Owl Eyes Staff
    8. “Caprice” means an unpredictable or inconsistent change of mood,
       behavior, or opinion. Mr. Bennet is capricious because his feelings
       and thoughts tend to change without apparent reason, sometimes on a
       whim.
       — Sarah, Owl Eyes Staff
    9. Michaelmas is the Christian Feast of St. Michael and All Angels (as
       it is traditionally named by the Anglican Church). St. Michael is
       one of the primary angelic warriors who fought against Satan and is
       considered a protector against the darkness of night. It was
       believed that evil, or at least negative energy, intensified in the
       dark. Families would therefore require strength during the darker
       months of the year, so Michaelmas is celebrated (in Western
       churches) on September 29—right as the days begin to noticeably
       shorten. In the Roman Catholic Church, the Feast usually celebrates
       Saints Michael, Raphael, Gabriel, and the archangels.
       — Sarah, Owl Eyes Staff
   10. A “chaise-and-four” is a carriage (or chaise) that is drawn by four
       horses. It was a standard mode of transportation for families that
       were well-off, though not extraordinarily wealthy. The fact that
       Mr. Bingley owns a chaise-and-four indicates that he is both
       financially stable and socially respectable.
       — Sarah, Owl Eyes Staff
   11. That is, Mrs. Bennet’s priorities and interests are fairly trivial.
       Though her instinct to secure sensible marriages for her daughters
       is well-founded, it does not seem to be based on intelligent
       reflection. Instead, she just seems self-involved and silly.
       — Sarah, Owl Eyes Staff
   12. Mrs. Bennet is not an intelligent or perceptive person; instead,
       she is concerned with frivolous things like neighborhood gossip,
       parties, and other social matters. Her shallowness contributes to
       her lack of self-awareness in social situations—or even in her own
       family.
       — Stephen Holliday
   13. The word “mean” is being used here to describe something average,
       mediocre, or unremarkable. Though the word is not always negative,
       it is clearly being used to disparage Mrs. Bennet: she is
       small-minded and unable to understand anything particularly
       complicated. Interestingly, she does seem to understand that her
       daughters will be financially destitute if they do not marry men
       like Mr. Bingley (men who are respectable and well-off).
       — Stephen Holliday
   14. In other words, Mrs. Bennet's mind is not as complicated or
       difficult to understand as Mr. Bennet’s. Though she has an
       “uncertain temper,” her opinions and behaviors are otherwise a lot
       more consistent and predictable.
       — Stephen Holliday
   15. Four thousand pounds a year is roughly equivalent to $400,000 US
       dollars. Trying to understand the current buying power of currency
       in Austen’s day is difficult. However, from a literary standpoint,
       buying power is not as important as Austen’s overall message that
       it is important to have a comfortable level of wealth.
       — Stephen Holliday
   16. Michaelmas is also one of the English quarter days—one of four days
       each year on which servants are hired and rents are due. The other
       three quarter days are Lady Day (March 25), Midsummer Day (June
       24), and Christmas Day (December 25).
       — Stephen Holliday
   17. The initial comic exchange that arises between Mr. and Mrs. Bennet
       provides us with an early allusion to the themes that directly
       relate to the novel’s title. While “pride” and “prejudice”
       certainly figure prominently (and in more complex ways) later on,
       Mr. Bennet is here shown to be detached and prideful while Mrs.
       Bennet is completely prejudicial.
       — Jamie Wheeler
   18. This humorous, tongue-in-cheek beginning sets the tone for the
       entire novel. Though it often deals with serious issues, such as
       the financial dependency of women in a patriarchal society, the
       novel is generally lighter fare than other Austen novels: as Austen
       herself admits in a personal letter, it is “rather too light, and
       bright, and sparkling.”
       — Jamie Wheeler

   please wait...

     * 
     * 
     * 
     * 
     *

   

   This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Learn
   more. Got it!
