   #alternate Store Owner Is Fatally Shot by Man Who Confronted Her About
   Pride Flag

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   U.S.


   Today’s Paper

   U.S.|Store Owner Is Fatally Shot by Man Who Confronted Her About Pride
   Flag
   https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/20/us/lake-arrowhead-california-pride-f
   lag-shooting.html
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
     * 256

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Store Owner Is Fatally Shot by Man Who Confronted Her About Pride Flag

   Laura Ann Carleton was described as “fearless” by her daughter, who
   said her mother died “defending something that was so important to
   her.”
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
     * 256

   Yellow police tape is tied to a metal chair. Behind it, written in
   chalk on the pavement, is "We Love You." A pile of flowers are arranged
   on the sidewalk.
   Flowers and candles in front of a store in Cedar Glen, Calif., where
   the owner was fatally shot after a man made disparaging comments about
   a Pride flag she had displayed.Credit...Craig Fisse

   By Orlando Mayorquin
   Aug. 20, 2023

   Every time someone ripped down the rainbow Pride flag from the Mag.Pi
   clothing store in the San Bernardino mountains in California, the
   store’s owner, Laura Ann Carleton, responded by putting up a bigger
   one.

   Ms. Carleton, 66, did not waver in her support of L.G.B.T.Q. people.

   Around 5 p.m. on Friday, she was fatally shot by a man who made
   disparaging remarks about the shop’s Pride flag, the authorities said.

   The man, whom the police on Monday identified as Travis Ikeguchi, 27,
   ran off. Deputies found him with a handgun, and he was killed in an
   encounter with law enforcement, the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s
   Department said in a statement.

   The department said that “detectives learned the suspect made several
   disparaging remarks about a rainbow flag that stood outside the store
   before shooting Carleton.”

   It was unclear whether the shooting, which occurred near Lake Arrowhead
   in Cedar Glen, was being investigated as a hate crime, and additional
   details of what preceded the attack were not available on Sunday.

   Sheriff’s Department officials said at a news conference on Monday that
   they were still investigating the motivation of the shooter, who was a
   Cedar Glen resident. He “yelled many homophobic slurs toward Carleton”
   before the attack, the police said, and had posted content on social
   media that was critical of law enforcement and the L.G.B.T.Q.
   community.

   The shooting came about a month after the Anti-Defamation League and
   the L.G.B.T.Q. advocacy group GLAAD released a report indicating a
   recent rise in anti-L.G.B.T.Q. harassment, vandalism or assault in the
   United States.

   Image
   Laura Ann Carleton preached “love, acceptance and equality,” her
   daughter said.Credit...Mountain Provisions Cooperative

   Ms. Carleton’s daughter Ari Carleton, 28, said that her mother was
   “fearless” and put the needs of others ahead of her own. Ms. Carleton
   had been a pillar in the community, she added.

   When a rare blizzard struck the area this year, Ms. Carleton, whose
   given name was Laura but who went by Lauri, and her husband, Bort
   Carleton, converted her shop into a relief center.

   “She opened up a free shop where she and my dad just gave out supplies
   to those in need who had been impacted by the storms,” Ari Carleton
   said in a phone interview on Sunday, adding, “That really sums up who
   she was as a person.”

   Ms. Carleton preached “love, acceptance and equality,” her daughter
   said, and those values were reflected in her store, Mag.Pi, where she
   carried a collection of personally curated, high-quality and ethically
   sourced clothes, and sometimes her own designs.

   Paul Feig, the film director, was a friend of Ms. Carleton’s. He would
   have dinner with Ms. Carleton and friends on his visits to Lake
   Arrowhead.

   “She was just a force of nature,” Mr. Feig said, adding, “She just
   really cared about people.”

   The Pride flag hanging outside Mag.Pi was removed numerous times by
   different people since the store opened two years ago, Ari Carleton
   said.

   The store is listed as a “business ally” by Lake Arrowhead LGBTQ+, a
   community group.

   “Lauri did not identify as LGBTQ+, but spent her time helping &
   advocating for everyone in the community,” the group said on Facebook.
   “She will be truly missed.”

   The organization is planning a vigil for Ms. Carleton once the threat
   of Tropical Storm Hilary clears.

   She is survived by her husband and nine children.

   “I just want the world to remember her for who she was,” Ari Carleton
   said. “And that she passed away in a place that she cherished, doing
   what she loved and defending something that was so important to her.”

   At Ms. Carleton’s Lake Arrowhead home after the shooting, her family
   opened a package that had been left at the doorstep.

   The flag at the store had begun to fade, Ari Carleton said. Her mother
   had ordered a new one.

   Lauren McCarthy contributed reporting.

   Orlando Mayorquin is a general assignment and breaking news reporter
   based in New York. More about Orlando Mayorquin
   256
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
     * 256

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Site Index

Site Information Navigation

     * © 2024 The New York Times Company

     * NYTCo
     * Contact Us
     * Accessibility
     * Work with us
     * Advertise
     * T Brand Studio
     * Your Ad Choices
     * Privacy Policy
     * Terms of Service
     * Terms of Sale
     * Site Map
     * Canada
     * International
     * Help
     * Subscriptions

     * Manage Privacy Preferences

   IFRAME:
   https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-P528B3&gtm_auth=tfAzqo1
   rYDLgYhmTnSjPqw&gtm_preview=env-130&gtm_cookies_win=x
