   | #alternate alternate alternate

   Hope Bible Church Hope Bible Church
     * New to Hope?
     * 5G Life
     * eNews

   (BUTTON)
     * Live
     * About
          + About Us
          + Our Doctrine
          + Our Team
          + 5G Life
          + Church Calendar
          + Job Opportunities
          + Funerals
          + Weddings
     * Connect
          + Next Steps
          + Baptism
          + Membership
          + Group Life
          + Kids
          + Youth
          + Soul Care
          + Worship
          + Serving Opportunities
          + Deaf Fellowship
          + Online Connection Card
          + Prayer Requests
          + eNews
          + Hope Sports
          + Mamas & Minis
          + LinkedIn Networking Group
          + Contact
     * Care
          + Deacons
          + GriefShare
          + Hope Meals
          + Need Help?
          + Recovery
          + Soul Care
          + The Market
     * Missions & Compassion
          + Missions & Compassion
          + Hope Missions Initiative
     * Resources
          + Preparing The Heart for Revival
          + Past Sermons
          + How to Know God
          + Bible Reading Plans
          + Spiritual Gift Discovery
          + Bookstore
          + RightNow Media
          + Parent Resources
     * Hope Institute
     * Events & Classes
          + Classes
          + Events
          + Free Indeed
          + Radiant
          + Stand Firm
          + ESL
     * Giving
          + Give Now
          + Finances and Stewardship
     * Blog

The Fruits of Pride

   Natasha Penny

   Download the PDF.

   The Root of Everything Evil
     * Most people do not consider themselves proud or vulnerable to
       pride. Yet, this is one of the major categories of sin the Bible
       says is in each of our hearts.
     * 1 John 2:15-17 (NASB) “Do not love the world or anything in the
       world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in
       him. For everything in the world–the cravings of sinful man, the
       lust of his eyes and the boasting of what he has and does–comes not
       from the Father but from the world. The world and its desires pass
       away, but the man who does the will of God lives forever.”
     * Pride is the first sin and the most serious sin. Pride is our
       greatest problem. Not the devil. Not low self-esteem. Not our
       upbringing or injustices suffered.

   God Hates Pride
     * God hates pride; we must learn to hate what God hates and to love
       what God loves. How much do you hate pride?
     * Proverbs 8:13 “To fear the LORD is to hate evil; I hate pride and
       arrogance, evil behaviour and perverse speech.”
     * Proverbs 11:2 “When pride comes, then comes disgrace, but with
       humility comes wisdom.”
     * Proverbs 16:5 “The LORD detests all the proud of heart. Be sure of
       this: They will not go unpunished.”
     * Proverbs 16:18 “Pride goes before destruction, a haughty spirit
       before a fall.”
     * God is not out to hurt your pride he is out to kill your pride.

   Pride is Serious
     * God is opposed to the proud. You don’t want God as your opponent.
     * James 4:6 “But he gives us more grace. That is why Scripture says:
       “God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble.””
     * 1 Peter 5:5 “Young men, in the same way be submissive to those who
       are older. All of you, clothe yourselves with humility toward one
       another, because, ‘God opposes the proud but gives grace to the
       humble.'”
     * Luke 14:11 “For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he
       who humbles himself will be exalted.””
     * The way up is the way down. Completely the opposite of the world.
       Humble yourself and you will be exalted; exalt yourself and you
       will be humbled.

   Humility is Critical to Receiving God’s Grace
     * Proverbs 11:2 “When pride comes, then comes disgrace, but with
       humility comes wisdom.”
     * Proverbs 15:33 “The fear of the LORD teaches a man wisdom, and
       humility comes before honour.”
     * Proverbs 18:12 “Before his downfall a man’s heart is proud, but
       humility comes before honour.”
     * Proverbs 29:23 “A man’s pride brings him low, but a man of lowly
       spirit gains honour.”
     * Isaiah 57:15 “For this is what the high and lofty One says—he who
       lives forever, whose name is holy: “I live in a high and holy
       place, but also with him who is contrite and lowly in spirit, to
       revive the spirit of the lowly and to revive the heart of the
       contrite.”
     * 1 Peter 5:6 “Humble yourselves, therefore, under God’s mighty hand,
       that he may lift you up in due time.”
     * Isaiah 23:9 “The LORD Almighty planned it, to bring low the pride
       of all glory and to humble all who are renowned on the earth.”
     * God resists the proud in order to show them their need of him. This
       results in his glory.
     * 2 Corinthians 12:7-10 “To keep me from becoming conceited because
       of these surpassingly great revelations, there was given me a thorn
       in my flesh, a messenger of Satan, to torment me. Three times I
       pleaded with the Lord to take it away from me. But he said to me,
       “My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in
       weakness.” Therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my
       weaknesses, so that Christ’s power may rest on me. That is why, for
       Christ’s sake, I delight in weaknesses, in insults, in hardships,
       in persecutions, in difficulties. For when I am weak, then I am
       strong.”
     * We must change the source of our lives. You are weak whether you
       know it or not. Abiding is how you live the Christian life.

   What Humility is Not

   1. Humility is not denying the gifts and graces God has given you.
     * It is important to know what you are gifted in. Realize you are
       called to help and serve others.
     * Humility is not putting yourself down. It is being sober in your
       assessment and walking in the acknowledgment of God’s grace. It is
       using what God has given you for his glory.

   2. Humility is not a lack of direction, desire and godly ambition.
     * It is not wrong to want to be used of God or advance in the kingdom
       of God. God wants to use you to do great things for him. God is not
       glorified by a losing or defeatist mentality.

   3. Humility is not denying the work of God within you or in the church.

   4. Humility is not the pursuit of mediocrity.
     * You should pursue excellence but not with the motivation of
       calling attention to yourself or trying to impress people.
     * Humility allows you to enjoy the gifts of God without trying to
       impress others.

   5. Humility is not denying or backing away from the truth.
     * You are called to be righteous and humble. You are responsible to
       speak the truth in love without being self righteously critical.

   Pride is Deceptive
     * The devil does not come up to us with a red flag and tell us we are
       proud.
     * Jeremiah 49:16 “The terror you inspire and the pride of your heart
       have deceived you, you who live in the clefts of the rocks, who
       occupy the heights of the hill. Though you build your nest as high
       as the eagle’s, from there I will bring you down,” declares the
       LORD.”
     * We need help to see the fruits of pride in our lives. What is the
       real issue behind your behaviour? Are you examining your heart and
       motives for pride? What really needs to change beyond outward
       behaviour?
     * Proverbs 16:2 “All a man’s ways seem innocent to him, but motives
       are weighed by the LORD.”
     * Proverbs 21:2 “All a man’s ways seem right to him, but the LORD
       weighs the heart.”
     * Humility is the door to true freedom. How do you deal with things
       in your life? At the symptom level, problem level, or root level?
     * John 8:31-36 “To the Jews who had believed him, Jesus said, “If you
       hold to my teaching, you are really my disciples. Then you will
       know the truth, and the truth will set you free.” They answered
       him, “We are Abraham’s descendants and have never been slaves of
       anyone. How can you say that we shall be set free?” Jesus replied,
       “I tell you the truth, everyone who sins is a slave to sin. Now a
       slave has no permanent place in the family, but a son belongs to it
       forever. So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed.”

   Fifty Fruits of Pride

   1. I tend to be self sufficient in the way I live my life. I don’t live
   with a constant awareness that my every breath is dependent upon the
   will of God. I tend to think I have enough strength, ability and wisdom
   to live and manage my life. My practice of the spiritual disciplines in
   inconsistent and superficial. I don’t like to ask others for help.

   2. I am often anxious about my life and the future. I tend not to trust
   God and rarely experience his abiding and transcendent peace in my
   soul. I have a hard time sleeping at night because of fearful thoughts
   and burdens I carry.

   3. I am overly self-conscious. I tend to replay in my mind how I did,
   what I said, how I am coming across to others, etc. I am very concerned
   about what people think of me. I think about these things constantly.

   4. I fear man more than God. I am afraid of others and make decisions
   about what I will say or do based upon this fear. I am afraid to take a
   stand for things that are right. I am concerned with how people will
   react to me or perceive my actions or words. I don’t often think about
   God’s opinion in a matter and rarely think there could be consequences
   for disobeying him. I primarily seek the approval of man and not of
   God.

   5. I often feel insecure. I don’t want to try new things or step out
   into uncomfortable situations because I’m afraid I’ll fail or look
   foolish. I am easily embarrassed.

   6. I regularly compare myself to others. I am performance oriented. I
   feel that I have greater worth if I do well.

   7. I am self-critical. I tend to be a perfectionist. I can’t stand for
   little things to be wrong because they reflect poorly on me. I have a
   hard time putting my mistakes behind me.

   8. I desire to receive credit and recognition for what I do. I like
   people to see what I do and let me know that they noticed. I feel hurt
   or offended when they don’t. I am overly concerned about my reputation
   and hate being misunderstood.

   9. I want people to be impressed with me. I like to make my
   accomplishments known.

   10. I tend to be deceptive about myself. I find myself lying to
   preserve my reputation. I find myself hiding the truth about myself,
   especially about sins, weaknesses, etc. I don’t want people to know who
   I really am.

   11. I am selfishly ambitious. I really want to get ahead. I like having
   a position or title. I far prefer leading to following.

   12. I am overly competitive. I always want to win or come out on top
   and it bothers me when I don’t.

   13. I like to be the center of attention and will say or do things to
   draw attention to myself.

   14. I like to talk, especially about myself or persons or things I am
   involved with. I want people to know what I am doing or thinking. I
   would rather speak than listen. I have a hard time being succinct.

   15. I am self-serving. When asked to do something, I find myself
   asking, “How will doing this help me, or will I be inconvenienced?”

   16. I am not very excited about seeing or making others successful. I
   tend to feel envious, jealous or critical towards those who are doing
   well or being honoured.

   17. I feel special or superior because of what I have or do. For
   example:

   my house
   my neighbourhood
   my physical giftings
   my spiritual giftings
   my intellect or education
   being a Christian
   my position or job
   my car
   my salary
   my looks

   18. I think highly of myself. In relation to others I typically see
   myself as more mature and more gifted. In most situations, I have more
   to offer than others even though I may not say so. I don’t consider
   myself average or ordinary.

   19. I tend to give myself credit for who I am and what I accomplish. I
   only occasionally think about or recognize that all that I am or have
   comes from God.

   20. I tend to be self-righteous. I can think that I really have
   something to offer God. I would never say so, but I think God did well
   to save me. I seldom think about or recognize my complete depravity and
   helplessness apart from God. I regularly focus on the sins of others. I
   don’t credit God for any degree of holiness in my life.

   21. I feel deserving. I think I deserve what I have. In fact, I think I
   ought to have more considering how well I have lived or in light of all
   I have done.

   22. I often feel ungrateful. I tend to grumble about what I have or my
   lot in life.

   23. I find myself wallowing in self-pity. I am consumed with how I am
   treated by God and others. I tend to feel mistreated or misunderstood.
   I seldom recognize or sympathize with what’s going on with others
   around me because I feel that I have it worse than they do.

   24. I can be jealous or envious of others abilities, possessions,
   positions, or accomplishments. I want to be what others are or want to
   have what others have. I am envious of what others have thinking that I
   should have it or deserve it. I find it hard to rejoice with others
   when they are blessed by God.

   25. I am pretty insensitive to others. I feel that some people just
   aren’t worth caring about. I have a hard time showing compassion.

   26. I have a know-it-all attitude. I am impressed by my own knowledge.
   I feel like there isn’t much I can learn from other people, especially
   those less mature than me.

   27. I have a hard time listening to ordinary people. I listen better to
   those I respect or people I want to leave with a good impression. I
   don’t honestly listen when someone else is speaking because I am
   usually planning what I am going to say next.

   28. I like to reveal my own mind. I have an answer for practically
   every situation. I feel compelled to balance everyone else out.

   29. I interrupt people regularly. I don’t let people finish what they
   are saying.

   30. I feel compelled to stop people when they start to share something
   with me I already know.

   31. I find it hard to admit it when I don’t know something. When
   someone asks me something I don’t know, I will make up an answer rather
   than admit I don’t know.

   32. I don’t get much out of teaching. I tend to evaluate a speaker
   rather than my own life. I grumble in my heart about hearing something
   a second time.

   33. I listen to teaching with other people in mind. I constantly think
   of those folks who need to hear the teaching and wish they were here.

   34. I’m not very open to input. I don’t pursue correction for my life.
   I tend to be unteachable and slow to repent when corrected. I don’t
   really see correction as a positive thing. I am offended when people
   probe the motivations of my heart or seek to adjust me.

   35. I have a hard time admitting that I am wrong. I find myself
   covering up or excusing my sins. It is hard for me to confess my sins
   to others or to ask for forgiveness.

   36. I view correction as an intrusion into my privacy rather than an
   instrument of God for my welfare. I can’t identify anyone who would
   feel welcome to correct me.

   37. I resent people who attempt to correct me. I don’t respond with
   gratefulness and sincere appreciation for their input. Instead I am
   tempted to accuse them and dwell on their faults. I get bitter and
   withdraw.

   38. When corrected, I become contentious and argumentative. I don’t
   take people’s observations seriously. I minimize and make excuses or
   give explanations.

   39. I am easily angered and offended. I don’t like being crossed or
   disagreed with. I find myself thinking, “I can’t believe they did that
   to me.” I often feel wronged.

   40. I have “personality conflicts” with others. I have a hard time
   getting along with certain kinds of people. People regularly tell me
   that they struggle with me.

   41. I am self-willed and stubborn. I have a hard time cooperating with
   others. I really prefer my own way and often insist on getting it.

   42. I am independent and uncommitted. I don’t really see why I need
   other people. I can easily separate myself from others. I don’t get
   much out of Group meetings.

   43. I am unaccountable. I don’t ask others to hold me responsible to
   follow through on my commitments. I don’t really need accountability
   for my words and actions. I think I can take care of myself.

   44. I am unsubmissive. I don’t like being under the authority of
   another person. I don’t see submission as a good and necessary
   provision from God for my life. I have a hard time supporting and
   serving those over me. I don’t “look up” to people and I like to be in
   charge. Other people may need leaders but I don’t. It is important that
   my voice is heard.

   45. I lack respect for other people. I don’t think very highly of most
   people. I have a hard time encouraging and honouring others unless they
   really do something great.

   46. I am a slanderer. I find myself either giving or receiving evil
   reports about others. Often times the things I say or hear are true
   about other people. I am not concerned about the effect of slander on
   me because of my maturity level. I think I can handle it. I will only
   share with others the things I really think they need to know. I don’t
   tell all.

   47. I am divisive. I tend to resist or resent authority. I don’t like
   other people to give me orders or directions.

   48. I like to demean or put others down. I often think people need to
   be adjusted and put in their place. This includes leaders. Other people
   need to be more humble and have a “sober” assessment of themselves.

   49. I tend to be critical of others. I find myself feeling or talking
   negatively about people. I subtlety feel better about myself when I see
   how bad someone else is. I find it far easier to evaluate than to
   encourage someone else.

   50. I really appreciate somebody taking the time to put this paper
   together. It will really be a big help to my friends and family.
   However, I don’t really need this because I think I’m pretty humble
   already.

   By Grace Rid Yourself of Pride

   1. Ask God to illuminate your heart so you can begin to see the fruits
   of pride in your life. Ask friends to point out the fruits of pride in
   your life realizing your heart is exceedingly deceitful.

   2. You must meet the qualifications if you are to go on in God.
   Humility is the attitude upon which everything else is built.

   3. Ask God to convict you point by point (Psalm 139:23-24) and trust
   that he will. You don’t want or need general condemnation, only
   specific, godly conviction.

   4. Confess your pride to God point by point and ask for his
   forgiveness. Just as importantly, ask him to cleanse you of all
   unrighteousness (1 John 1:9).

   5. Don’t ask God to humble you — the Scriptures say to humble yourself
   (1 Peter 5:6). Humility isn’t an emotion; it’s a decision of the will
   to think and act differently. Vine’s Expository Dictionary defines
   humble as “low lying.” Ask yourself how you could be low lying or put
   others before yourself in various situations, and then do it. Respond
   to opportunities God gives you to humble yourself or honour others.

   6. Confess your sins of pride to those you have effected and to your
   friends. They can help to hold you accountable and bring the on-going
   correction you will need. Be open, honest and transparent about your
   life and sins.

   7. Ask God to give you a holy hatred for pride and its fruits in your
   life. Be continually on the alert. Don’t allow pride to grow in your
   heart. Sow to the Spirit, not to the flesh.

   8. Remember your war against pride is life-long. It is not a battle won
   in a day. Yet, as you faithfully put to death, pride, and put on,
   humility, you will experience greater freedom and more importantly
   greater conformity to image and likeness of Christ. In so doing, God
   will be glorified in your life!

   August 5, 2014 - This entry was posted in News and tagged Pride,
   Humility, Fruits of the Spirit by Natasha Penny.

Post navigation

   ← 10 Year Celebration Glory Story // John Linde →

   Hope Bible Church

   Facebook logo twitter logo instagram logo vimeo logo

   Navigation
     * About
     * Resources
     * Ministries
     * Give
     * Policies

   Explore
     * Search
     * Employment
     * Live in the Light
     * Great Commission Collective

   ENEWS

   Weekly Newsletter


    Address
    500 Great Lakes Blvd
    Oakville, ON L6L 6X9
    Phone: 905.827.4888

   ©2024 Hope Bible Church
