    2. Parents
    3. Quotes
    4. Collections
    5. 63 Best Pride Quotes And Sayings To Keep You Humble

   FOR ALL AGES
   (BUTTON)

63 Best Pride Quotes And Sayings To Keep You Humble

   Written by

--
   Outdoor & Nature
   Learn more
   (BUTTON) Show all photos 1 (BUTTON) 303 days left
   Quotes About Pride Famous Pride Book Quotes Quotes On Pride By Famous
   People Pride Quotes That Encourage Humility
   Read these Tokyo facts to learn all about the Japanese capital.
   (BUTTON) Show all photos 1 (BUTTON) 303 days left

--

Kidadl Article Fact-checking Standards

   At Kidadl we pride ourselves on offering families original ideas to
   make the most of time spent together at home or out and about, wherever
   you are in the world. We strive to recommend the very best things that
   are suggested by our community and are things we would do ourselves -
--

   (BUTTON) Share this article

   Pride is defined as a feeling of worthiness and, interestingly, it can
   be both detrimental and beneficial to an individual's personality.

   Generally, it is good to be proud of yourself, as having pride in
   yourself will boost your self-esteem and self-worth, and perhaps even
   motivate you to achieve your goals. However, too much pride can be
   negative, remember the famous saying: "pride always comes before a
   fall"?

   Most pride is positive though, such as the pride that parents feel when
   their child graduates from college! So, let's celebrate ourselves and
   embrace being proud with this list of the best pride quotes that define
   this quality in the best possible way.

   For more great quotes, check out these stay humble quotes and vanity
   quotes.

Quotes About Pride

   Portrait of proud bearded young man

   This list of sayings and quotes about being proud will give you an idea
   of how detrimental unchecked pride can be and how important it is to
   take pride in what you do.

   1. "Some people would rather die in their pride, than live in their
   humility."

   -Anthony Liccione.

   2. "Pride must die in you, or nothing of heaven can live in you."

   -Andrew Murray.

   3. "Pride costs us more than hunger, thirst, and cold."

   -Thomas Jefferson.

--

   -Soren Kierkegaard.

   5. "Pride builds walls between people, humility builds bridges."

   -Rick Warren.

   6. "Britain has a great sense of its own national pride. It's like the
   monarchy is the embodiment of that pride."

   -John Lithgow.

   7. "I take some pride in... representing myself exactly how I would
   like to have my son remember me to his kids."

   -Robert Downey, Jr.

   8. "Through pride we are ever deceiving ourselves."

   -Carl Jung.

   9. "Pride and excess bring disaster for man."

   -Xun Kuang.

   10. "I take pride in saying that I am an army officer's daughter even
   more than being an actor."

   -Anushka Sharma.

   11. "Pride comes before the fall."

   -Proverbs 16:18.

   12. "I think pride is more important sometimes than making money."

   -Kapil Dev.

   13. "Humility was considered a great virtue in my family household. No
   show of complacency or self-satisfaction was ever tolerated. Patting
   yourself on the back was definitely not encouraged, and pleasure or
   pride would be punishable by death."

   -Hugh Laurie.

   14. "I pride myself on being a family man. I pride myself on being
   respectful and hardworking."

   -Alexander Volkanovski.
--

   -Evelyn Ashford.

Famous Pride Book Quotes

   Here's a list of some of the best quotes on pride from famous books and
   novels, including some famous 'Pride And Prejudice' quotes. These books
   often discuss a time when pride still mattered.

   16. "Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often
   used synonymously. A person may be proud without being vain. Pride
   relates more to our opinion of ourselves, vanity to what we would have
   others think of us."

   -Jane Austen, 'Pride and Prejudice'.

   17. "And not only the pride of intellect, but the stupidity of
   intellect."

   -Leo Tolstoy, 'Anna Karenina'.

   18. "When dealing with people, remember you are not dealing with
   creatures of logic, but with creatures bristling with prejudice and
   motivated by pride and vanity."

   -Dale Carnegie, 'How To Win Friends And Influence People'.

   19. "The tyrant is a child of Pride, who drinks from his sickening cup
   recklessness and vanity, until from his high crest headlong he plummets
   to the dust of hope."

   -Sophocles, 'Oedipus Rex'.

   20. "Fear and realisation of ignorance, strong medicines against stupid
   pride."

   -Garth Nix, 'Sabriel'.

   21. "The hated man is the result of his hater's pride rather than his
   hater's conscience.”

   -Criss Jami, 'Diotima, Battery, Electric Personality'.

   22. "Pride helps us; and pride is not a bad thing when it only urges us
   to hide our own hurts—not to hurt others."

   -George Eliot, 'Middlemarch'.
--

   -Ezra Taft Benson.

   24. "For thirty minutes I sat back and felt the glimmer of pride that
   historically precedes the most catastrophic falls."

   -Antony John, 'Five Flavors Of Dumb'.

   25. "Love hath no pride."

   -Karen Marie Moning, 'Kiss Of The Highlander'.

   26. "Many religious people suffer from pride: taking pleasure or even
   delight in being good, or religious."

   -Idries Shah, 'Sufi Thought And Action'.

   27. "I am not proud, but I am happy; and happiness blinds, I think,
   more than pride."

   -Alexandre Dumas, 'The Count Of Monte Cristo'.

   28. "Rowan considered for a moment, and then said, 'I have known many
   kings in my life, Dorian Havilliard. And it was a rare man indeed who
   asked for help when he needed it, who would put aside pride.'"

   -Sarah J. Maas, 'Empire Of Storms'.

   29. "There had been an attempt to humiliate him. It had not succeeded.
   He had paid, but pain, like pleasure, has no duration. Pride was an
   entity more persistent."

   -Jack Vance, 'The Palace Of Love'.

   30. "Take pride away from a man and you might as well run a knife
   through his heart."

   -Julie Garwood, 'Mercy'.

Quotes On Pride By Famous People

   Fame is often followed by a sense of pride. Here is a list of pride
   sayings by famous people who had a lot to say about this quality.

   31. "I've always been someone who believes in being real and embraced
   my imperfections with pride rather than covering it up."

   -Zareen Khan.

   32. "Pride will spit in pride's face."

   -Thomas Fuller.

   33. "I always take pride in the fact that nobody can mess with me, and
   I never let anybody mess with me my entire life."

   -Dean Ambrose.

   34. "The greatest pride, or the greatest despondency, is the greatest
   ignorance of one's self."

   -Baruch Spinoza.

   35. "It's a fine thing to rise above pride, but you must have pride in
   order to do so."

   -Georges Bernanos.

   36. "It was pride that changed angels into devils; it is humility that
   makes men as angels."

   -Augustine of Hippo.

   37. "I pride myself on being a good friend, and all my friends can
   attest to that."

   -Kyle Richards.

   38. "Pride. You have it where you can have it."

   ― Marilyn French.

   39. "Pride is pleasure arising from a man's thinking too highly of
   himself."

   -Baruch Spinoza.

   40. "Poor nations are hungry, and rich nations are proud; and pride and
   hunger will ever be at variance."

   -Jonathan Swift.

   41. "She laughed and said not to confuse pride with nobleness."

   -Brom, 'Krampus: The Yule Lord'.

   42. "I guess I take a lot of pride in that no matter what type of car
   we drive, we're always competitive in it. That's something I've taken a
   lot of pride in my whole life."

   -Tony Stewart.

--
   -Benjamin Whichcote.

   45. "I just believe that young people need to be able to learn how to
   write in their own voice. Just like a musician, you pride yourself on
   having your own distinct sound."

   -Terry McMillan.

Pride Quotes That Encourage Humility

   Here is a list of some beautiful pride quotes that will help you stay
   grounded.

   46. "Behind every argument lies someone's ignorance."

   -Louis D. Brandeis.

   47. "In general, pride is at the bottom of all great mistakes."

   -John Ruskin.

--

   -Michel de Montaigne.

   51. "Humility is nothing but truth, and pride is nothing but lying."

   -St. Vincent de Paul.

--

   -T. S. Eliot.

   53. "Leave your pride, ego, and narcissism somewhere else. Reactions
   from those parts of you will reinforce your children's most primitive
   fears."

   -Dr. Henry Cloud & Dr. John Townsend.

   54. "Our pride will lead us to perish, but our politeness keeps us
   alive."

   -Sipho P. Nkosi.
--

   -Criss Jami.

   56. "Pride is not the opposite of shame, but its source. True humility
   is the only antidote to shame."

   -General Iroh.
--

   -Timothy Keller.

   58. "The rich swell up with pride, the poor from hunger."

   -Sholom Aleichem.

   59. "Sometimes I think that you have to swallow your pride a little bit
   and know when you are done."

   -Jason White.

   60. "Pride is an admission of weakness; it secretly fears all
   competition and dreads all rivals."

   -Fulton J. Sheen.

   61. "Pride is an independent, me-oriented spirit. It makes people
   arrogant, rude and hard to get along with. When our heart is prideful,
   we don't give God the credit and we mistreat people, looking down on
   them and thinking we deserve what we have."

   -Joyce Meyer.

   62. "Pride gets no pleasure out of having something, only out of having
   more of it than the next man... It is the comparison that makes you
   proud: the pleasure of being above the rest."

   ― C. S. Lewis.

   63. "All men make mistakes, but a good man yields when he knows his
   course is wrong, and repairs the evil. The only crime is pride."

   ― Sophocles.

   At Kidadl, we have created lots of interesting family-friendly quotes
   for everyone to enjoy! If you liked these pride quotes, why not check
   out these [proverbs quotes] or purpose driven life quotes too?

Written By
--

Disclaimer

   At Kidadl we pride ourselves on offering families original ideas to
   make the most of time spent together at home or out and about, wherever
   you are in the world. We strive to recommend the very best things that
   are suggested by our community and are things we would do ourselves -
