     * Contact Us
     * Back to top ↑

Pride and Prejudice by Jane Austen

   It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession
   of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife. However little known the
--
   neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds of the
   Mansion House with large manicured lawn

   Home - Books - Pride and Prejudice by Jane Austen
   This page contains affiliate links. As Amazon Associates we earn from
   qualifying purchases.

--
    7. Page 7
    8. Page 8

   Pride and Prejudice is an 1813 novel of manners by Jane Austen. The
   novel follows the character development of Elizabeth Bennet, the
   protagonist of the book, who learns about the repercussions of hasty
   judgments and comes to appreciate the difference between superficial
--

   “I do not believe a word of it, my dear. If he had been so very
   agreeable, he would have talked to Mrs. Long. But I can guess how it
   was; everybody says that he is eat up with pride, and I dare say he had
   heard somehow that Mrs. Long does not keep a carriage, and had come to
   the ball in a hack chaise.”

--

   “I believe, ma’am, I may safely promise you NEVER to dance with him.”

   “His pride,” said Miss Lucas, “does not offend ME so much as pride
   often does, because there is an excuse for it. One cannot wonder that
   so very fine a young man, with family, fortune, everything in his
   favour, should think highly of himself. If I may so express it, he has
   a RIGHT to be proud.”

   “That is very true,” replied Elizabeth, “and I could easily forgive HIS
   pride, if he had not mortified MINE.”

   “Pride,” observed Mary, who piqued herself upon the solidity of her
   reflections, “is a very common failing, I believe. By all that I have
   ever read, I am convinced that it is very common indeed; that human
   nature is particularly prone to it, and that there are very few of us
   who do not cherish a feeling of self-complacency on the score of some
   quality or other, real or imaginary. Vanity and pride are different
   things, though the words are often used synonymously. A person may be
   proud without being vain. Pride relates more to our opinion of
   ourselves, vanity to what we would have others think of us.”

   “If I were as rich as Mr. Darcy,” cried a young Lucas, who came with
--

   When dinner was over, she returned directly to Jane, and Miss Bingley
   began abusing her as soon as she was out of the room. Her manners were
   pronounced to be very bad indeed, a mixture of pride and impertinence;
   she had no conversation, no style, no beauty. Mrs. Hurst thought the
   same, and added:

