     * Articles
     *

   Design for Pride in the Workplace
   Download PDF
   Download PDF
     * Research
     * Open access
     * Published: 04 July 2016

Design for Pride in the Workplace

     * Yichen Lu^1 &
     * Virpi Roto^1
--

Background

   Pride is one of the most meaningful experiences in daily life. Many
   psychological studies emphasize self-oriented and event-based
   achievements as the main sources of pride, whereas work from
   organizational management considers pride as a collective attitude
   derived from other-focused activities and fostered by the sense of
   belongingness. Taking the interdisciplinary aspects of pride into
   account, this article addresses the challenge of how experience design
   can contribute to pride experience in the workplace.

Methods

   By cross-cutting theories from psychology and organizational
   management, this study introduces a framework of dynamic pride. The
   data includes 20 experience design cases that were specifically devoted
   to positive experiences in the context of the metal and engineering
   industry. 33 pride-related experience design goals were analyzed and
   categorized into the framework of pride.

Results

   This study introduces the social and temporal dimensions of pride
   experience at work. The pride-related experience design goals fall into
   four categories: self-focused short-term pride, self-focused long-term
   pride, other-focused short-term pride, and other-focused long-term
   pride. Accordingly, the extracted design strategies of these goals were
   mapped to each type of pride. Most of these design strategies were
   clustered in the categories of self-focused short-term pride and
   other-focused long-term pride.

Conclusions

   This study reveals the design strategies for dynamics of pride in the
   workplace varying from evoking self-achievement in individual
   interactions with tools to maintaining long-term motivation of
   self-competence development, and from highlighting one’s contribution
   in face-to-face collaborative work facilitated by interactive tools to
   fostering co-experience of organizational pride throughout social
   events.

Background
--
   specific experience in a targeted context.

   This study aims to investigate design strategies for human flourishing
   with a special focus on pride experience in the workplace, because the
   nature of pride is full of richness regarding meaningful experiences at
   work. According to the positive computing framework (Calvo and Peters
   2014, p. 87), pride covers the dimension from intra-personal pride that
   is experienced within oneself (e.g., feelings of self-achievement) to
   interpersonal pride that is experienced from interaction between
   oneself and others (e.g., perception of respect from others). From the
   perspective of time, pride can be experienced as a moment-by-moment
   positive emotion evoked by unstable events, such as success in a
   challenging task. Also, pride can be considered as a cumulative
   experience based on a long-term rational attitude, such as loyalty
   towards one’s community. In contrast to the richness of pride, current
   design research studies provide limited sources of design for pride,
   which are mainly constrained by the mere scope of product design and
   the perspective of self-achievement and personal distinct possession
   (Desmet 2012).

   Pride as a meaningful experience design goal in the workplace is worth
   investigating further. This study specifically strives to provide
   designers concrete design-for-pride strategies from two angles: the
   literature review on the multiple facets of pride and the empirical
   data on pride embodiment in design concepts. Accordingly, with a
   special focus on workplace, this study addresses two research
   questions: first, to identify what are the dimensions of pride that
   help designers to understand the design space for pride experience;
   second, to distinguish the strategies that designers have used so far
   in the design-for-pride cases. By synthesizing theoretical and
   empirical knowledge, this study proposes a multi-dimensional framework
   of design-mediated pride^Footnote 1 and the design strategies for
   evoking dynamics of pride in the workplace.

   The remaining sections of this paper are structured accordingly: first,
   a theoretical framework of pride based on literature review is
   presented and the need of knowledge on design-mediated pride is
   identified; second, 20 cases that were designed for positive experience
   at work are analyzed based on self-focus to other-focus dimensions and
   short-term to long-term timespans; third, derived from these cases, the
   design strategies for evoking pride experience at work are proposed;
   finally, the insights from these design strategies are discussed.

Literature Review

Psychological Structure of Pride

   Pride is a fundamental human emotion involving a complex
   self-evaluative process (Tracy and Robins 2004). Different from other
   “purely” basic emotions, such as the universally admired emotion of
   love or the universally reviled emotion of jealousy (Williams and
   DeSteno 2009), pride is comprised of two distinct facets. To this
   extent, Tangney (1990) referred to “alpha” pride as pride in self and
   “beta” pride as pride in behavior. Furthermore, Tracy and Robins (2004)
   distinguished between authentic pride and hubristic pride: authentic
   pride is evoked by accomplishment from successful behavior and
   positively related to genuine self-esteem and prosocial traits, whereas
   hubristic pride is more towards self-aggrandizement and positively
   related to narcissism (Tracy et al. 2014). Additionally, the two facets
   of pride differ from each other in cognitive antecedents (Tracy and
   Robins 2007b). Authentic pride is triggered more by unstable, specific,
   and controllable attributions, such as solid results due to hard work,
   whereas hubristic pride is more likely to occur from stable, global,
   and uncontrollable causes, such as feelings of superiority from “who I
   am” (Tracy and Robins 2007b). As this study focuses on designing for
   positive pride, hubristic pride is excluded in the scope of this paper.

Self-Focus Versus Other-Focus

   Both self- and other-focused pride are sources of positive emotion
   (Desmet 2012); moreover, the categories of self and social have been
   identified as wellbeing factors (Calvo and Peters 2014). Self-focused
   pride emphasizes more on interaction within oneself and response to
   oneself whereas other-focused pride accentuates interpersonal
   interaction and the influence between self and others. Most studies
   emphasize pride as a self-conscious and performance-related experience
   triggered by self-efficacy (Tracy and Robins 2007a). Besides its
   elicitation through self-achievement, pride as a fundamental social
   emotion can also be “generated by appraisals when one is responsible
   for a socially valued outcome or for being a socially valued person”
   (Mascolo and Fischer 1995, p. 66). Moral accomplishment and prosocial
   actions are associated with the feeling of pride that may motivate and
   reinforce one’s socially valued conduct (Tangney et al. 2007), such as
   caregiving (Tracy and Robins 2007b), treating others well (Michie
   2009), and positively responding to others’ emotions and needs (Leffel
   et al. 2008). Nakamura’s (2013) related work suggests that compared
   with self-oriented achievement, other-oriented prosocial action has an
   even stronger relationship to pride in both family life and work life.
   Therefore, no matter whether it is triggered by self-oriented task
   accomplishment or other-oriented altruistic activities, pride functions
   as both a “barometer” and “motivator” (McCullough et al. 2001) in
   assessing, regulating, and encouraging one’s behavior toward being
   “good, competent, and virtuous” (Haidt 2003, p. 860).

Short-Term Versus Long-Term

   Pride derived from subjective histories of success may promote
   eagerness towards new anticipatory goals (Katzenbach 2003b). This
   promotion-related eagerness may energize and enhance performance
   (Higgins et al. 2001) and thus renew the experience of pride. As such,
   pride can transition from a temporary emotional experience towards a
   durable attitude of pride. According to the timespans of user
   experience (Roto et al. 2011), a new challenging goal may evoke an
   anticipatory pride for a person with a subjective history of success
   (Higgins et al. 2001); incremental progress in problem solving may
   elicit a momentary pride; when reflecting on an overcome challenge, a
   person may feel an episodic pride in the achievement. These
   performance-related types of pride are short-term, event-specific, and
   ascribed to internal attributes, such as ability or effort (Weiner
   1985). Additionally, another kind of long-term and cognitive
   attitudinal pride exists in organizational studies, which does not rely
   on single events, but cumulative experience related to the overall
   evaluation of a target (Gouthier and Rhein 2011), such as being proud
   of one’s community.

Pride Experience at Work

   Pride is one of the most intense experiences in work life (Katzenbach
   2003b), and work itself is a source of pride (Hodson 1998). Katzenbach
   (2003b) distinguishes institution-building pride which is based on
   largely intangible value and collective interest from self-serving
   pride which is driven by power and materialism.

   Employees can take intrinsic pride in what they make, how they work,
   and whom they work with (Katzenbach 2003b). Experience of pride in
   achievement can be empathized by others in social interaction at work
   and thereby contribute to psychological empowerment and promote future
   successes (Froman 2010). Katzenbach (2003b) introduces a powerful
   “closed loop of energy” derived from pride: better performance
   contributes to business success, and recognized business success
   instills a strong feeling of pride, which fuels future better
   performance. This cycle can be repeatedly applied in organizational
   management.

   Gouthier and Rhein (2011) discern two types of organizational pride:
   one is an emotional pride triggered by successful organizational
   events, and the other is a cognitive and durable attitude of pride
   oriented from the general perception of the organization and employees’
   sense of belonging to the organization (Lea and Webley 1997). On this
   matter, the celebration of successful events, presence of a successful
   company history and culture, and successful advertising campaigns have
   been identified as activators of organizational pride (Gouthier and
   Rhein 2011).

   In summary, pride experience can be derived from self-focused
   achievement and other-focused interpersonal interaction. The richness
   of pride also lies in covering a timespan from a temporary emotion to a
   durable attitude. Pride can be intensively experienced in the
   workplace, and intrinsic pride can be evoked by organizational
   celebration and reputation. From the psychology and organizational
   management literature review, two dimensions of pride were identified
   relevant for design: social dimension from self-focused to
   other-focused and temporal dimension from short-term to long-term
   (Fig. 1).
   Fig. 1
   figure 1

   Social and temporal dimensions of pride experience at work
   Full size image

Design for Pride Experience

   Recently, design researchers have started to explore how design can
   contribute to pride experience. Desmet (2012) introduced pride among
   the 25 positive emotions in the scope of human-product interactions:
   pride may be evoked by owning a unique product, being able to use a
   complex product, achieving something a product facilitates, or
   receiving positive feedback from others concerning the product one
   owns. Based on Desmet’s work, Yoon et al. (2013) developed a tool to
   facilitate emotional granularity in design and specified that pride may
   be triggered by “one’s praiseworthy behavior surpassing internal and
   external standard, and/or one recognizes that others appreciate it”
   (ibid., p.8). Compared with the two dimensions of pride (Fig. 1), pride
   as a collective experience in social interaction (Battarbee and
   Koskinen 2005) and the long-term cumulative experience has not yet been
   fully addressed in existing experience design theories.

   One example of positive design for pride given by Desmet and Pohlmeyer
   (2013) is a designed social interactive activity in which patients with
   dementia can match record pieces in order to play music from their past
   on a turntable with others; thus, a feeling of pride may arise from
   task completion within the social interaction. Moreover, two cases of
   work tool design for meaningful experience at work (Lu and Roto 2015)
   indicate that employees may feel proud of mastering a tool and being
   part of an organization; meanwhile, customers may experience pride when
   they make a right decision on a tool purchase and present manufactured
   tools to their clients. These design examples suggest how designers
   shape the conditions that may evoke a pride experience in a specific
   context. These cases reveal different strategies of designing for
   dynamics of pride. On one hand, those theoretical sources of pride,
   such as achievement, competence, owning something special, and positive
   appraisal from self and others, are clearly embodied in these three
   cases. On the other hand, when referring to a pride experience in a
   specific context, designers seem to employ specific context-adapted
   design strategies, such as utilizing the positive relationship between
   personalized music and a patient with dementia, developing the
--

   Because the nature of design knowledge is highly applicable and
   practice-driven (Cross 2001), besides the theoretical perspective, it
   is meaningful to examine how different types of pride were designed for
   in the concrete cases. This study aims to help designers to discover
   profound and unique sources of pride experience in the specific context
   of the workplace. The design-for-pride strategies employed by the
   collected cases will be identified and analyzed against the theoretical
   dimensions of pride (Fig. 1).

Methods

--
   company personnel were available for providing information and
   comments. At least one of the authors followed these cases by arranging
   weekly meetings with the design teams and reading their design diaries.
   The students were not given special guidance for designing for pride,
   as pride was not a presumed design goal in any of the assignments.
   Rather, the students were trained to identify multiple profound
   experience goals for the targeted workplace contexts. Only after a
   majority of cases ended up pride-related experience goals, the authors
   got interested in a deeper study of pride experience at work. Hence the
   analysis of the design cases was retrospective and the final reports of
   the student teams served as the primary data source for this part of
   the research.
--
   The design case description can provide better understanding of the
   experience design in the industrial workplace context. Due to the
   limited length of this article, this section will shortly describe four
   example cases that tackled pride from different perspectives.

   The customer for the first experience design case was Kemppi, a
   manufacturer of welding machines. The task was to design a mobile
--
   welding skills with welding without the actual welding equipment, but
   rather with the help of a welding simulator game. The design students
   drew three experience goals: Pleasure (the joy of welding),
   Self-motivation (willingness to practice constantly), and Pride (about
   their skills, the results, and the welding itself). The Pleasure goal
   was tackled by gamification features; Self-motivation by sharing and
   communicating the progress; and Pride by a physical certificate after
   completing all levels of training (Fig. 2). The incremental concept was
   a mobile application as suggested in the assignment, and the radical
   concept focused on the best possible pride experience by inviting
   selected application users to showcase their real-life welding skills
   in an event similar to an art exhibition.
   Fig. 2
   figure 2

   A physical certificate was designed to enhance pride after completing
   welding training
   Full size image

--
   focusing on the maintenance services of cranes at waste-to-energy
   plants. After studying the employees at the plant, the students set
   goals for the crane maintenance service experience. Of the three goals,
   two were related to the pride experience: Worthiness (an affirmation of
   their importance as a customer) and Belongingness (a meaningful
   relationship with Konecranes employees). The radical concept is called
   Mood sphere, consisting of a light ball at the plant and an identity
--
   experience in mind, since the salesperson is the primary user of the
   simulator. The students utilized the metaphor of Q from the James Bond
   movies and set three experience goals that all were related to the
   experience of pride: Sense of directing (directing the situation by
   suggesting possible solutions), Expertise (presenting oneself as a
   professional, technical expert), and Pride (proudly representing the
   company). The design strategy to fulfill the Sense of directing goal
   was to boost the feeling of control; Expertise goal by using impressive
   technology; and Pride by drawing attention with a novel way of
   presentation. The radical solution proposed by the students was a
   simulator vehicle, similar to a Segway, with the steering joysticks
   mounted on it (Fig. 4).
--
   into a visitor space. In this case, the company already had defined
   company-wide experience goals (Roto et al. 2015) for experience
   development projects, from which the students derived four experience
   goals for this specific case. One of these was Participation for pride,
   which aims to foster a pride experience in customers by being able to
   influence the development activities at Fastems. In addition to the
   physical space design in the center of the factory activities, students
   proposed an interactive table as a collaboration platform• in the space
--
   collaboration (right)
   Full size image

Selecting Pride-Related Experience Goals

   To decide whether a case is an endeavor for evoking a pride experience
   at work, the authors analyzed the final reports of all student teams,
   and examined the description of each experience goal setting and its
   infusion into a design concept. Compared to the existing guidance on
   designing for pride, this study adopted a broader and deeper
   understanding of pride based on the literature study. Besides the
   experience goals literally labeled with “pride”, those having the
   potential to elicit pride experience were also taken into account as
   pride-related experience goals and their relevance to pride is
   indicated in Table 1. The researchers interpreted the implication of
   these goals situated in the design context rather than their original
   meaning. For example, in the Kemppi case introduced above, pride as a
   long-term experience is based on a momentary pleasurable pride and
   episodic evaluative pride in self-motivation and thus Pleasure and
   Self-motivation are grouped into pride-related experience goals. On the
   other hand, if the experience goals and their embodiment in the final
   concepts both have little connection with pride, then these goals are
   excluded in this study.
   Table 1 The experience goals with high relevance to pride
   Full size table

   In these 20 design cases, altogether 61 experience goals were
   identified and more than half (33) of them were pride-related.
   Meanwhile, only two cases out of 20 have little connection with pride:
   one stressed Discovery as an experience in taking an elevator; the
   other focused on a Trust experience evoked by the designed cover for an
   expensive ship component placed outside.

Analyzing Pride-Related Experience Goals Against Two Dimensions of Pride

   Each goal was then postulated to fall into the category either
   long-term or short-term experience. Two researchers (the authors)
   conducted the goal categorization independently, resulting to an
   inter-rater agreement of 87.88 %. Consensus was reached by discussion.
   These pride-related experience goals were also categorized along the
   self-focus or other-focus dimension. The inter-rater agreement in this
   case was 72.73 %, and the consensus was reached by discussion.

   Combining the two categorizations, each selected experience goal was
   supposed to belong to one of these four groups: self-focused short-term
   pride, self-focused long-term pride, other-focused short-term pride,
   and other-focused long-term pride. Accordingly, the design strategies
   used by the students for different types of pride were compared within
   and across categories.

Results

   According to the social dimension, 17 out of 33 pride-related
   experience goals are self-focused, whereas the remaining 16 goals are
   other-focused. Along the temporal dimension, 15 out of 33 pride-related
   experience goals are short-term, and the rest are long-term. The
   experience goals for self-focus short-term pride and other-focus
   long-term pride both take one-third of all the pride-related experience
   goals whereas other-focus short-term pride was the least designed for.

   As shown in Fig. 6, different design strategies are summarized and
   grouped along the social and temporal dimensions of pride.
   Fig. 6
   figure 6

   Design strategies sorted by two dimensions of pride
   Full size image

Design for Self-Focus Short-Term Pride

   10 out of the 33 pride-related experience goals are both self-focus and
   short-term. The design strategies are distilled into three aspects:
   enhancing self-respect, enhancing self-efficacy, and promoting one’s
   goal achievement.
--
Enhancing Self-Respect

   Three experience goals indicate that enhancing the feeling of
   self-respect is a pathway to pride experience. Thus, providing users
   with a distinctive interactive tool or workspace and strengthening
   their unique expertise may increase self-awareness of users’ own
   professionalism, which leads to self-respect enhancement. For instance,
--
Enhancing Self-Efficacy

   Five experience goals suggest that evoking the feeling of control,
   improvement, and autonomy can enable momentary pride experience. For
   example, providing an overview of all the machines’ data may enhance a
   manager’s feeling of control; boosting performances with a new
   application may enhance a worker’s feeling of competence; providing
--
Promoting One’s Goal Achievement

   Two experience goals indicate goal achievement promotion may induce
   anticipatory pride. For example, rewarding a learner’s practice of
   welding with a tangible certificate and fueling one’s intrinsic
   interest in doing something desirable may be a pathway to pride
   promotion.

Design for Self-Focus Long-Term Pride

   Seven out of the 33 pride-related experience goals are designed for
   self-focused long-term pride. They stress three aspects: fostering
   self-worth, developing one’s competence, and developing and maintaining
   one’s interest.

--
   Three goals indicate that activating one in organizational events,
   letting one work on what one is passionate about, and maintaining a
   positive self-status may foster self-worth, which would thus result in
   a durable self-focused pride. For example, in the case of Konecranes,
   the end users are often invited to a series of organizational events
   that may increase one’s awareness of their own value; making one
   passionate about one's work may result in self-actualization in a
--

   Two goals indicate that challenging one to the next level of skills and
   letting one see how they perform compared to others may produce a
   durable and self-focused pride. In the case of Kemppi, the app provides
   gamification elements and makes the long-term skill improvement
   visible, which may in turn keep learners practicing through enjoyment
   of welding and competition with others.
--

   Two goals from two cases indicate that motivating users with rewards as
   in games and keeping users’ inspirations in a series of organizational
   events may result in self-focus long-term pride. In the case of Kemppi,
   the app keeps an update of unlocked features to encourage learners onto
   the next practice level; a company can hold competitions, workshops,
   and seminars to maintain one’s interest and ambition and can thus
   accumulate one’s long-term pride.

Design for Other-Focus Short-Term Pride

   Five out of the 33 pride-related experience goals are both other-focus
   and short-term. They emphasize two aspects: enabling one’s influence in
   social interaction and evoking a sense of belongingness to an
   organization.
--

   Two experience goals indicate that fueling one’s leadership in social
   interaction and revealing one’s influence on decision-making may result
   in other-focused short-term pride. In the Rolls–Royces case introduced
   above, the special vehicle may guide others’ attention and provide a
   salesperson with a sense of directing, thus facilitate the
   salesperson’s leadership in interacting with the audience. Moreover,
   enabling the customers’ involvement and hence developing awareness of
   their impact on decision-making may build pride in customers through
   social interaction.

Evoking a Sense of Belongingness to an Organization
--
   Three experience goals indicate that facilitating a connection with
   others, sharing happy moments, and stimulating inspiration and
   appreciation from others may lead to the feeling of other-focus
   short-term pride. For example, the output of an interactive system at
   the entrance of the office may evoke employees’ belongingness to a
   company by worldwide company information dissemination and
   entertainment activity arrangement. Besides this, organizational events
   may have the similar impact on stakeholder engagement by stimulating
   their inspiration.

Design for Other-focus Long-Term Pride

   11 out of the 33 experience goals are designed for other-focus
   long-term pride. These goals focus on two main aspects: fostering a
   sense of belonging to an organization and revealing long-term impacts
   of one’s contribution to others.

--
   interaction in organizational events, nurturing organizational
   heritage, and fostering immediate sharing of success may instill a
   sense of belonging to an organization and thus lead to other-focus
   long-term pride. For example, human-to-human interaction at work
   provides the feeling of camaraderie, the appreciation between each
   other, and the historical success of a company, which all contribute to
   collective pride towards an organization.

Revealing the Long-term Impact of One’s Contribution to Others

   Five experience goals indicate that other-focused long-term pride can
   be produced by providing transparency on one's idea development, making
   the positive consequences of one's contributions visible to others, and
   making one’s positive progress visible to others. For example, the
   visualization of a process in which one’s work is further developed and
   implemented by others, and the positive confirmation of one’s critical
   decisions for an organization from a long-term perspective may increase
   one’s stable pride evoked by others.

Discussion

   Workplace as a social space provides a rich context for stimulation,
   development, and maintenance of the dynamics of pride. Design for pride
   in the workplace is a powerful, yet little utilized approach to keeping
   the closed loop of energy up for a successful business. By
   cross-cutting theories from psychology and organizational management,
   this study first introduces the social and temporal dimensions of
   pride. Based on the theoretical framework of pride, the empirical data
   from 20 experience design cases reveals contextualized and concrete
   design strategies for the dynamics of pride experience at work. The
   design implication drawn from these design strategies is given as
   follows.

   The design strategies for self-focused short-term pride is in line with
   the sources of pride in human-production interaction (Desmet 2012):
   self-efficacy enhancement is related to “using the tool induces pride
   of task performance”; self-respect enhancements matches with “owning
   the tool induces pride of one’s expertise”; and goal achievement
   promotion fits with “the tool enables results that induces pride of
   one’s task performance”. To evoke such pride much depends on a
   well-designed momentary interaction between tool and user, for example,
   by measuring and visualizing incremental performance improvement in
   time.

   When moving to a self-focus long-term pride, the design strategies
   adapt to the long-term effect, such as motivation maintenance,
   competence development and fostering self-worth. The key to designing
   for this type of pride is to explore and personalize the individual
   intrinsic meaning and to hold it longer, which is in line with positive
   design for personal significance, i.e., not focusing on the momentary
   effect, but on one’s personal goals and aspirations (Desmet and
   Pohlmeyer 2013).

   Besides the facilitation of work performance enhancement, interactive
   tools can also be designed for other-focused short-term pride to assist
   users’ leadership or involvement in momentary social interaction, such
   as sharing one’s ideas by instant prototyping for collaborative
   discussion. Additionally, seeing others’ responses to one’s
   contribution may happen in organizational events, such as competitions,
   workshops, and seminars. These kinds of events may strengthen one’s
   connection with others, trigger social interaction, and stimulate each
   other’s creativity, in which co-experience of pride can be evoked
   within an organization.

   Other-focused long-term pride is highly related to entrepreneurial
   spirit and loyalty. Company leaders aim to instill such pride into
   their employees and customers. The implications from organizational
   management can enter into design strategy by fostering a sense of
   belonging to an organization through activities (Gouthier and Rhein
   2011). Belongingness is an other-oriented communion, which is about
   sharing common social identity and strengthening interpersonal
   connectedness (Rosso et al. 2010). Thus, sharing a positive identity is
   an important source of the other-focused pride, especially in
   organizational work contexts. Meanwhile, the visualization of progress
   and metrics can enable employees to track their own and others’ work
   (Katzenbach 2003b), and thereby reveal the long-term impact of one’s
   contribution to others, which is also a key design strategy for
   other-focused pride.

   These four types of pride apparently connect to each other and work
   together. For example, one’s pride derived from the pleasure of
   interaction with a work tool may bring out both enjoyment and
   self-enhancement at work. The pleasurable pride may serve as an
   intrinsic motivator for long-term good work performance. The
   visualization of one’s positive work results and progress may evoke
   others’ appreciation. In the long run, the collective impacts of
   everyone’s incremental contribution accumulate and sustain
   organizational success and thereby lead to a durable pride towards
   one’s organization.

   In conclusion, this paper identifies two main trends in designing for
   pride experience in the workplace: designers can uplift their vision
   from self-focused and achievement-oriented interaction with a tool
   towards fostering engagement-oriented interaction with people, and from
   event-based emotional pride in momentary interaction towards a
   long-term organizational attitude of pride. Meanwhile, the role of a
   tool becomes that of an interactive facilitator for co-experience of
   pride in activities rather than the passive means of task completion.

   This study opens the discussion that experience design researchers need
   to study external knowledge in order to broaden the understanding of
--
   between theories and empirical data were born with considerable
   validity which lies in the traceable evidences from available knowledge
   and concrete design cases. On the other hand, however, the predefined
   four-type-pride framework might limit the variety of the strategies,
   because there might be valuable special strategies that could be
   excluded by the scope of this framework. This limitation reflects that
   it could be a danger if designers overly rely on the available
--
   concepts. Moreover, a 2-month project can hardly include a long-term
   evaluation of design results.

   From the finding validity perspective, the pride experience design
   strategies were presented as backup tools in the latest course but
   without guiding the students to use them. Compared with previous cases,
   pride was defined more towards durable pride and organizational pride
   in the recent cases. More importantly, inspired by these cases, the
   companies have gradually changed their mindset from focusing on
   usability towards prioritizing experience, and have recognized pride
   can be designed from not only interaction quality in task but also
   organizational impact. This impact was manifested in the industrial
   seminar when two companies presented and referred the student cases as
   their new path to experience design innovation. At least one
   design-for-pride case was implemented entirely from the students’
   concepts, and got positive feedback from the company’s clients.

   Future studies will focus on at least three directions. First, it is
   worth adding case diversity to the data collection: cases from
   different programs in different research institutes or companies are
   needed for both qualitative and quantitative studies to assess whether
   the two dimensions of design for pride can be applied to a large number
   of design cases. Second, there is a definite need to trace the real
   implementation of certain strategies in the client companies to
   identify the long-term impact on both workers’ subjective wellbeing and
   business development. Third, it is also meaningful to observe designing
   for pride in other domains and to identify what kind of strategies are
   common patterns and to what degree the differences of contexts lead to
   the specificity of design strategies.

--
     * Froman L. Positive psychology in the workplace. J Adult Dev.
       2010;17(2):59–69.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Gouthier MH, Rhein M. Organizational pride and its positive effects
       on employee behavior. J Serv Manag. 2011;22(5):633–49.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Haidt J. The moral emotions. In: Davidson RJ, Scherer KR, Goldsmith
--
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Higgins ET, Friedman RS, Harlow RE, Idson LC, Ayduk ON, Taylor A.
       Achievement orientations from subjective histories of success:
       promotion pride versus prevention pride. Eur J Soc Psychol.
       2001;31(1):3–23.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Hodson R. Pride in task completion and organizational citizenship
       behaviour: evidence from the ethnographic literature. Work Stress.
       1998;12(4):307–21.
       Article  Google Scholar
--
       H, Turunen M. Defining user experience goals to guide the design of
       industrial systems. Behaviour Inform Technol. 2015
       (ahead-of-print).
     * Katzenbach J. Pride: a strategic asset. Strategy Leadersh.
       2003a;31(5):34–8.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Katzenbach J. Why pride matters more than money: the power of the
       world’s greatest motivational force. New York City: Crown Business;
       2003b.
       Google Scholar
     * Lea SEG, Webley P. Pride in economic psychology. J Econ Psychol.
       1997;18(2–3):323–40.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Leffel GM, Fritz ME, Stephens MR. Who cares? generativity and the
--
       design framework for work tools. J Eng Design. 2015
       (ahead-of-print).
     * Mascolo MF, Fischer KW. Developmental transformations in appraisals
       for pride, shame, and guilt. In: Tangney JP, Fischer KW, editors.
       Self-conscious emotions: the psychology of shame, guilt,
       embarrassment, and pride, xvii. New York: Guilford Press; 1995. pp
       64–113.
     * McCullough ME, Kirkpatrick S, Emmons RA, Larson D. Is gratitude a
       moral affect? Psychol Bull. 2001;127:249–66.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
     * Michie S. Pride and gratitude how positive emotions influence the
       prosocial behaviors of organizational leaders. J Leadersh Organ
       Stud. 2009;15(4):393–403.
     * Nakamura J. Pride and the experience of meaning in daily life. J
       Posit Psychol. 2013;8(6):555–67.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Pohlmeyer AE. Design for happiness. Interfaces. 2012;92:8–11.
--
       a theoretical model. Psychol Inq. 2004;15:103–25.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Tracy JL, Robins RW. Emerging insights into the nature and function
       of pride. Curr Dir Psychol Sci. 2007a;16(3):147–50.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Tracy JL, Robins RW. The psychological structure of pride: a tale
       of two facets. J Pers Soc Psychol. 2007b;92:506–25.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
     * Weiner B. An attributional theory of achievement motivation and
       emotion. Psychol Rev. 1985;92(4):548.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
     * Williams LA, DeSteno D. Pride adaptive social emotion or seventh
       sin? Psychol Sci. 2009;20(3):284–8.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
     * Yoon J, Desmet PMA, Pohlmeyer AE. Embodied typology of positive
--

Cite this article

   Lu, Y., Roto, V. Design for Pride in the Workplace. Psych Well-Being 6,
   6 (2016). https://doi.org/10.1186/s13612-016-0041-7

   Download citation
--
Keywords

     * Experience design
     * Pride experience
     * Design strategy
     * Self-focus
     * Other-focus
