   #Pride Edinburgh » Feed Pride Edinburgh » Comments Feed alternate
   alternate alternate

   Pride Edinburgh

     * Home
     * The March
     * The Festival
     * The Pride Guide
     * Blog
     * Contact

   Select Page

Pride Edinburgh

Saturday 24th June 2023

   Scotlands longest running celebration of diversity, Pride Edinburgh
   ensuring the rainbow shines over the capital city.

   DONATE NOW!

The Festival

   Discover the areas at Pride Edinburgh’s Village
   Learn More

Sponsorship

   Join the Celebration of Diversity and Inclusion: Become a Sponsor for
   Pride Edinburgh Today!
   Learn More

The March

   Join the Movement for Equality and Love: March with Pride at Pride
   Edinburgh
   Learn More

--

   Second(s)

Pride Edinburgh is the longest running free celebration of the LGBT community
in Scotland.

   Since starting in 1994, Pride Edinburgh has grown exponentially.
   Coupled with the growth of digital channels we see our own digital
   presence as a vital part to engage with the community.

   Based on our community’s feedback and our ambitions we see the
   following as key areas of focus in the coming years:
     * Developing Pride Edinburgh’s value in the community by becoming a
       directory and promoter of LGBT life in Edinburgh and beyond.
     * Continue to grow the event to continuously improve accessibility
       and impact for the LGBT community.
--
Latest News


   Celebrating Queer Joy – Art Exhibition in Teviot on Pride Day

Celebrating Queer Joy – Art Exhibition in Teviot on Pride Day

   by Nadine Love | Jun 21, 2023 | News

   Credit to Jaime Prada as both the photographer of the images above and
   the curator of the exhibition.'Celebrating Queer Joy' is an uplifting
   exhibition brought to you in collaboration of Pride Edinburgh and
   Carried Away,  honouring the beauty of queer joy in all its...

The Secrets to Building Strong Professional Relationships
--

   by jamie | Oct 6, 2022 | Press Release

   Pride Edinburgh is Scotland’s national LGBTQIA+ festival. This year
   will mark our 26th Anniversary Pride Event in the capital city. The
   annual Pride Edinburgh March confirms our shared commitment to a better
   future for all irrespective of sexuality, gender, and...

The Secrets to Building Strong Professional Relationships
--
   Event Partner
   Travel Partner
   Travel Partner
   Pride March Partner
   Pride March Partner
   Entertainment Partner
   Entertainment Partner
   Cinema Partner
