
   U.S.

Republican attorneys general issue warning letter to Target about Pride
merchandise

   By Kerry Breen
--
     *
     *

   Target pulls some LGBTQ+ Pride items (BUTTON)

   Target pulls some LGBTQ+ Pride merchandise after backlash 06:18

   Seven U.S. state attorneys general sent a letter to Target on Wednesday
   warning that clothes and merchandise sold as part of the company's
   Pride month campaigns might violate their state's child protection
   laws.

   Republican attorneys general from Indiana, Arkansas, Idaho, Kentucky,
   Mississippi, Missouri and South Carolina signed the letter, writing
   that they were "concerned by recent events involving the company's
   'Pride' campaign."

   The attorneys said that they believed the campaign was a "comprehensive
   effort to promote gender and sexual identity among children,"
--
   should not tell parents about a child's gender or sexual orientation
   without consulting the child first, something the attorneys general
   said undermines "parents' constitutional and statutory rights."
   Take Pride, merchandise display, Target Store, Queens, New York "Take
   Pride" merchandise display at a Target store in Queens, New York. Getty
   Images

   The letter did not include any specific demands nor did it outline how
   they believe the campaign could violate child protection laws, but the
   attorneys general did suggest that Target might find it "more
   profitable to sell the type of Pride that enshrines the love of the
   United States."

   The attorneys general also said they believed Target's Pride campaign
   threatened their financial interests, writing that Target leadership
   has a "fiduciary duty to our States as shareholders in the company" and
   suggesting that company officials "may be negligent" in promoting the
--
   to some backlash among customers.

   Target shares have declined 12% this year, but the company is facing
   issues far beyond the backlash to its Pride collection, which included
   onesies, bibs, and T-shirts for babies and children. Like many
   retailers, the company is struggling with a pullback in consumer
   spending because of high inflation, which has weighed on its profits.

   But Target is also facing scrutiny for its merchandise selection,
   including its Pride line, with its stores removing some of the items in
   May after facing threats. At the time, the company didn't specify which
   products were being removed, although Target has faced criticism online
   over swimsuits advertised as "tuck-friendly" with "extra crotch
   coverage" in its Pride collection.

   "Target's management has no duty to fill stores with objectionable
   goods, let alone endorse or feature them in attention-grabbing displays
--
   shareholders to prudently manage the company and act loyally in the
   company's best interests."

   Backlash to the Pride campaign did involve threats of violence to
   Target stores and workers. Some merchandise was relocated to less
   popular areas of the store, and other pieces, including the swimsuits
   criticized by the attorneys general, were removed.
--
   are.
   Carrefour pulls Doritos and other PepsiCo products from shelves
   In:
     * Pride
     * Pride Month
     * Target

   First published on July 7, 2023 / 2:23 PM EDT
