   4 MINUTE READ
   July 20, 2023

Ambassador Gutmann's Opening Statement for Pride Day Panel 2023

   AMB Gutmann delivering remarks in chancery courtyard Today we have
   invited you all to join us in honoring the contributions of the LGBTQ+
   communities in both Germany and the United States, to celebrate their
   legacy, and to chart an inspiring course — “toward a more perfect
   union” — for the future.  That is what Pride Month is all about –
   taking stock of the past to prepare us for a more inclusive, just, and
   joyful future.

   Speaking of more inclusive, just, and joyful: This year, President
   Biden hosted the largest Pride celebration in White House history with
   LGBTQ+ families from across the country.

   And here at the Embassy and at our five Consulates, the past 12 months
   have been Pride Year.

   Last summer, we rolled out a series of Pride events to promote LGBTQIA+
   rights. We followed up throughout the year with multiple programs
   highlighting what together we are doing in the United States and
   Germany to advance equality for the LGBTQIA+ community both at home and
--

   Because both Germany and the United States have played meaningful roles
   in the fight for queer rights, we feel a special and joyful duty to
   celebrate Pride. We will avidly advocate for LGBTQI+ rights as often as
   possible right here at the U.S. Embassy in Berlin.

   Let us celebrate the transatlantic struggle for queer rights. Germany
   named its pride celebrations after a street in New York City.
   Christopher Street was the site of a despicable police raid and the
   courage to resist that oppression – and persist. Stonewall was a
   milestone in the American civil rights movement and it launched a
--
   ongoing discrimination is serious work.

   This evening, we could not be prouder than to continue our tradition of
   Pride programs in welcoming Germany’s anti-discrimination commissioner,
   Ferda Ataman.

   We know that history doesn’t just travel forward.  Advancing the gains
--
   rights of all people, everywhere. Let me propose a heartfelt toast: To
   a more LGBTQ plus perfect world!

     Amazing night celebrating #PrideMonth at the @usbotschaft with
     LGBTQIA+ friends. Let us be crystal clear: Queer rights are human
     rights! pic.twitter.com/mpiovdARd7

