   [p?c1=2&c2=6035250&cv=2.0&cj=1&cs_ucfr=0&comscorekw=Pride%2CLGBTQ%2B+ri
   ghts%2CStarbucks%2CWalmart%2CPepsico%2CMcDonald%27s%2CLos+Angeles+Dodge
   rs%2CJP+Morgan%2CGoogle%2CWalt+Disney+Company%2CCoca-Cola%2CBurger+King
   %2CApple%2CBank+of+America%2CWells+Fargo%2CBusiness] Skip to main
--
     * Inequality
     * Global development

   collage shows target's pride display, a group of people smiling, the LA
   dodgers logo in rainbow at the ballpark, and a bud light truck with
   rainbow pennants on it
   [ ]
--
   Some brands have maintained a strong commitment to visibly supporting
   LGBTQ+ rights, but others are celebrating more quietly than last year.
   Composite: The Guardian/Getty Images/Adidas/LA Dodgers Twitter
   Pride

Parades but no public posts: which brands are supporting Pride in the wake of
backlash?

   As Target, Bud Light, Starbucks and others face threats and boycotts,
--
     *
     *

   In recent years, Pride month has served as an opportunity for global
   brands to demonstrate their inclusivity – marching in parades, touting
   support for LGBTQ+ causes and blanketing merchandise in rainbow flags.

--
   corporations shrewdly supporting LGBTQ+ communities in more liberal
   territories for marketing purposes, without expending political or
   financial capital to stand by persecuted queer people around the world.
   The best US exhibitions and art events for Pride month
   Read more

   But the political environment in the US is shifting. Republican state
   legislatures are passing laws restricting LGBTQ+ rights and
   conservative media personalities are demonizing trans people. Some
   companies have faced a rightwing backlash over recent Pride promotions.
   After a promotional campaign with Dylan Mulvaney, a trans influencer,
   sparked a boycott of Bud Light, its parent company, Anheuser-Busch, put
   executives on leave and distanced itself from its own campaign. And
   last month, Target pulled some Pride-themed products off its shelves,
   saying customers had been threatening employees.

   Will pressure from the right cause prominent US companies to back down,
   despite track records of support for Pride? Some brands have maintained
   a strong commitment to visibly supporting the cause, but others are
   celebrating more quietly than last year – for instance, sponsoring
   parades but ignoring Pride on their social media accounts. Here’s what
   we know about their plans for 2023.

Adidas

   The company has already taken heat from the right this year over its
   choice of model for a traditionally feminine swimsuit. The swimsuit is
   included in the company’s 2023 Pride collection, in conjunction with
   the queer South African designer Rich Mnisi. Despite some furious
   anti-trans statements and calls for a boycott, the company has
   continued to promote the swimwear and, in a statement to USA Today,
   defended “a diverse line of models who bring the spirit of this
   collection to life”.
   three models on a beach
   Adidas and Rich Mnisi’s 2023 Pride campaign. Photograph: Adidas

Amazon

   The e-commerce site has participated in parades and concerts for Pride
   month. Last year, however, the Pride parade in its home town of Seattle
   cut ties over Amazon’s donations to politicians who have backed
   anti-LGBTQ+ legislation, according to Seattle Pride. The organization
   also opposed what it described as Amazon’s offer of $100,000 to get the
   parade named after itself. In response to a Guardian inquiry, the
   company said it had “nothing to share” on its plans for this year,
   though it is listed as a parade sponsor. Last year it posted Pride
   content on Instagram throughout the month of June. This year, as of 7
   June, the company has no posts about Pride on its grid (although
   smaller accounts like Amazon Music have been posting Pride content).

Anheuser-Busch

--
   agency, and a pair of executives were put on leave in late April. In
   past years, Anheuser-Busch has touted its support for LGBTQ+
   communities, partnering with LGBTQ+-owned businesses and promoting a
   rainbow-colored bottle. This year the company has yet to mention Pride
   on either the Budweiser or Bud Light Twitter accounts or Instagram
   grids. The company did not respond to a Guardian request for comment on
   its plans for Pride month, but it does appear to be quietly sponsoring
   some parades this year. It has also donated $200,000 to the National
   LGBT Chamber of Commerce amid criticism over its response to the
   boycott.
--
Apple

   The tech company, which has had a robust presence at its local San
   Francisco Pride parade, also works with a number of LGBTQ+
   organizations including the Human Rights Campaign, the National Center
   for Transgender Equality and the Trevor Project. For 2023, it is
   promoting a Pride-themed band for the Apple Watch, continuing a
   tradition of using Pride colors on the device that began in 2016 and
   was expanded with additional colors in 2021 to represent Black, Latino,
   trans and non-binary people.
   person poses while others watch
   New York City’s Pride march, 2021. Photograph: Marie Le Ble/ZUMA
   Wire/REX/Shutterstock

Bank of America

   The bank’s website has a detailed accounting of its support for LGBTQ+
   rights, and it has sponsored several major Pride parades in the past.
   It continues with parade sponsorships this year and celebrated 1 June
   on Instagram.

--

Coca-Cola

   The beverage company has sponsored major Pride parades and it continues
   to sell Pride-themed merchandise. It did not respond to a Guardian
   request for comment on its plans for this year, but it is listed as a
   sponsor of several parades.

Dick’s Sporting Goods

   The Pennsylvania-based retailer appears to have big plans for Pride
   2023, with a list of parades on its site. It’s also promoting a broad
   collection of Pride items.

Disney

--
   kindergarten to third grade. The company is also involved in a legal
   battle over control of its self-governing district, which the state
   sought to take over last year following Disney’s opposition to the
   “don’t say gay” measure. This year, it has a new Pride apparel
   collection and is planning two “Disneyland After Dark” Pride nights for
   the first time in June.

Google

   The tech company has held “virtual Pride parades”, which use
   smartphones and headsets to allow anyone to join a parade from wherever
   they are. It has also participated in and sponsored real-life ones,
   including this year. On 1 June, the main search site marked Pride with
   an article describing how the company is celebrating Pride, including
   highlighting certain apps and LGBTQ+ creators on YouTube.
   overhead view of baseball field
   Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles. Photograph: Gary A Vasquez/USA Today
--
JPMorgan Chase

   The bank describes itself as a longstanding supporter of the community,
   providing large donations to pro-LGBTQ+ causes, sponsoring Pride
   parades and working with advocacy groups. Last year, however, Pride
   Northwest, which is behind the Portland event, cut ties to the bank
   over its financial support for politicians backing anti-LGBTQ+ causes.
   In a statement to the Guardian, the company highlighted its recently
--

Kohl’s

   The department store is promoting Pride-themed clothing collections –
   and now faces a boycott akin to the backlash against Target, with
   opponents tweeting their fury about “Pride merch for babies”. Kohl’s
   did not reply to a request for comment, but as of Wednesday the items
   appeared to remain available, and on 1 June the company marked Pride
   month on its site and social media. Last year, Kohl’s was a “gold”
   level sponsor of the Pride parade in Milwaukee, where it is based, for
   the first time. It remains a gold sponsor this year.

Levi Strauss & Co

   The San Francisco-based clothing company, which has participated in the
   city’s parade, has launched a Pride campaign and apparel line for this
   year. Asked whether rightwing pressure on other companies would affect
   the outfitter, a spokesperson said Levi’s was “continuing with its
   Pride collection and marketing as planned”.

Los Angeles Dodgers

--
   Republican senator Marco Rubio accused the group of being
   anti-Christian, the team rescinded its invitation – only to re-invite
   them amid anger from LGBTQ+ rights groups. The team apologized for the
   disinvitation. On 1 June, it marked Pride month on Instagram.

Mars

--

   The makeup company is also dealing with calls for a boycott for working
   with Mulvaney, after she posted a video of herself using its products.
   The website of its parent company, L’Oréal, lists Pride plans and
   affiliations involving a number of its brands, including parade
   participation and partnerships with LGBTQ+ organizations. Maybelline
   itself featured drag performers on its Instagram to celebrate 1 June.
--

   The fast-food chain has participated in various LGBTQ+-themed
   promotions, including fries with a rainbow box. This year, it will
   sponsor several Pride parades, including in Los Angeles and Dallas.

Miller Lite

   The Bud Light rival has a long history of support for LGBTQ+ causes and
   appears to be continuing with it this year. It touts “town halls” in
   various cities where bars serving the beer can work toward inclusivity
   and sponsors events including the Dallas Pride Miller Lite music
   festival. In a statement to the Guardian, Miller’s parent company,
   Molson Coors, said: “Everyone deserves to feel comfortable having a
   drink and being themselves. That’s why beer, wine and spirits companies
   like ours have supported Pride for decades, why we’ll do so in 2023 and
   why we’ll continue to do so for decades to come.”
   The ice is lit in rainbow light for Pride night before an NHL game
   between the Anaheim Ducks and the Los Angeles Kings in 2021.
   The ice is lit in rainbow light for Pride night before an NHL game
   between the Anaheim Ducks and the Los Angeles Kings in 2021.
   Photograph: Ashley Landis/AP

NHL

   Hockey teams have attempted to hold a number of Pride nights this year,
   only to see many players refuse to don Pride-themed jerseys. (In some
   cases, they may have had legal concerns given Russia’s anti-LGBTQ+
   laws; 5% of the league’s players are Russian.) Last year, the league
   promoted Pride month celebrations; its plans for this year are unclear.
   As of 7 June, it had not tweeted about Pride; last year, it posted to
   celebrate on 1 June.

Nike

   The athletic brand is continuing its Be True collection to mark Pride
   month.

North Face
--
   Like Adidas, the North Face is dealing with conservative calls for a
   boycott, led by the far-right congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene. In
   this case, the anger followed an ad campaign featuring the drag queen
   Pattie Gonia for the brand’s Summer of Pride campaign, featuring
   outdoor workshops, as well as its collection of Pride merchandise. The
   company defended the campaign in a statement to Fox News, saying it has
   “always believed the outdoors should be a welcoming, equitable and safe
   place for all. We are honored and grateful to support partners like
--

PepsiCo

   The beverage company has continued to broadcast its support for Pride
   online this year and is sponsoring the New York City Pride parade.

Starbucks

   The coffee company highlights its work on behalf of LGBTQ+ rights
   extensively on its website, including a timeline of its “history of
   inclusion”. This year, it is sponsoring Pride parades including in Los
   Angeles and San Diego. Meanwhile, it’s facing boycott calls after
   airing an ad in India celebrating a young person’s transition. In a
   statement to the Guardian, the company said it “unequivocally
--

Target

   The big-box retailer is offering an extensive Pride-themed apparel
   collection, but it has removed some items, citing threats to its
   employees. Experts have warned that the company’s decision could
   “embolden alt-right actors”, encouraging them to believe that threats
   and boycotts are effective. As of 1 June, it was promoting the Pride
   collection prominently on its website.

Donald Trump
--
   The former president offered an array of LGBTQ+-themed merchandise in
   2019, even as he barred trans troops from serving openly and sought to
   support companies seeking to skirt anti-discrimination laws. Believe it
   or not, this year there is no Pride merch available on his campaign
   site.

Walmart

   Despite threats to its big-box competitor Target, Walmart says it is
   not changing its own Pride collection: “We have merchandise that we
   sell all year that supports different groups.” The company, which also
   promoted Pride month on its site and social media, says it has not
   faced threats of its own.

Wells Fargo

   The bank proclaims its support for LGBTQ+ rights, calling itself an
   early leader in the movement. This year, it will “continue to honor and
   celebrate Pride Month by supporting local LGBTQ+ organizations in
   several cities across the country and hosting employee celebrations”,
   it said in a statement to the Guardian.

--
   promotion of a picture book called Big Wig, which tells a story about
   drag performers. Its parent company, Yum! Brands, did not respond to a
   request for comment about its plans for this year. On 1 June, the
   company posted on Twitter to celebrate Pride.
   Explore more on these topics
     * Pride
     * LGBTQ+ rights
     * Starbucks
     * Walmart
