
   Menu Close

15 Subtle Signs of Pride In Your Life

   How do you measure pride in your life? This article provide 15 not so
   obvious ways to assess the level of pride present in our lives.

   I STRUGGLE WITH PRIDE! There, I said it! Many of us would like to think
   of ourselves as humble individuals. But the more you walk with Jesus
   the more He shows you the areas you need to grow in. You might be
   surprised to know that there are many ways that pride can creep into
   our lives and I want to caution us all to be on guard against these. I
   think it’s safe to say that God HATES pride because it reminds Him of
   the original sin in heaven when Lucifer sinned and became Satan (Eze.
   28:12-15; Isa. 14:12-15; Rev. 12:1-3). The following is a checklist of
   15 indicators as to how pride can manifest itself in our lives. As you
   read this I encourage you to take an honest assessment as to whether
   these actions or mentalities are consistently manifested in your life.
   Here we go!
--
#1 – Assuming you already know something when someone is teaching

   When you immediately tune someone out who starts teaching you something
   that you may be somewhat familiar with, that is an example of pride. It
   is the assumption that you know everything about the subject being
   communicated and that this person, whom you see as inferior in
   knowledge to you, cannot teach you something new.
--

   When someone asks you to do something and your immediate thought is,
   “I, out of all people, shouldn’t have to do that. That task is for
   someone else.” That is a sign of pride that we should consider dealing
   with. Next time this thought arises ask yourself,

     If Jesus was willing to leave heaven and come to earth for me, then
--
   There is something to be said for independence. However, there are
   times in life when we must all admit that something is beyond our
   capacity and that we need help. The unwillingness to recognize our own
   shortcomings and need for help is a sign of pride.


#4 – Feeling the Need to Consistently Teach People Things
--
   Have you ever been in a group where someone feels the needs to dominate
   the conversation and seemingly spill everything they know without
   giving other people the opportunity to share? Sometimes this can be a
   sign of pride because when a person knows something that they know most
   other people don’t know much about, it creates a sense of pride within
   them.


#5 – Talking about Yourself a Lot

   When you talk a lot about your accomplishments, your education, title,
   position, and/or financial status, that is a sign of pride. The Bible
   says, “Be quick to listen and slow to speak…” (James 1:19). When we
   talk about ourselves a lot it reveals that we have not yet learned how
   to come up out of ourselves and focus on the interests of others (Phil.
--
   This is when we tend to put others down often because there is a
   deep-seated need for us to feel better about ourselves. People who are
   critical are that way because they secretly see themselves as exempt
   from the very same things they criticize others. This is pride.


#9 – Consistent need for Attention and Affirmation
--
   When someone constantly needs to be the center of attention in public
   or secretly craves consistent affirmation for their accomplishments,
   looks, personality, serving, intelligence, and/or physique, this is a
   sign of pride.


#10 – Unable to receive constructive criticism

   When a person struggles to allow other people to speak into their lives
   and provide helpful feedback it is a sign of pride because they are too
   blinded by their own pride to see the value in what someone is sharing
   with them and how it can help make them a better person.


--
   person is constantly obsessed with how they look and they like to
   flaunt their figure/physique in front of others with the hopes that
   people will notice and gawk at them, this is vanity which is yet
   another form of pride.


#12 – Unwilling to submit to authority
--
   When you consistently associate yourself with people who have prominent
   positions and publicly drop it in conversations in hopes that people
   will think you are equally as important as the people you associate
   yourself with, this is a very subtle form of pride.


SUMMARY

   Whew! So, as you can see pride is something that can creep into your
   life in various subtle ways. A great story in the Bible to study about
   pride is about a man named King Uzziah in 2 Chronicles 26. I encourage
   you read/study it in its entirety. Once again, I encourage you to check
   your heart against this list and ask God to help you identify some ways
   that you struggle with pride and how you can exhibit more humility in
   your life.

Share this post
