                                   * Corporate Gifts
                                   * Gift Certificates

Subtle Signs of Pride in your Co-workers, Spouse, Family, Church Staff and
Everybody Else Around You

The Secretly Prideful Person
                           By Ronald McDonald
                           A friend told me the other day that I’m a very
                           prideful man, and I said to myself, "Dude's
                           just jealous". So I told my wife what he said
                           and she said, "Ah, come on. You're a humble
                           man. Seriously. You're not cocky and flashy and
                           arrogant and all that." But later that same
                           week, I was reading a book that said the most
                           prideful people aren’t usually the bragging
                           arrogant types. They’re the nice friendly
                           helpful ones at work.
                           That got me to thinking that maybe my
                           definition of pride wasn’t very complete. Now I
                           really wondered, What are examples of
                           pride? So, I googled “Signs of pride list” and
                           “Spiritual pride” and couldn’t believe what I
                           found. I was all over the list. I read about 40
                           articles and lists written by well-known
                           psychologists, theologians, pastors and even
                           the Wikipedia entry and consolidated them all
                           here. I put them into 4 groups; Pride of
                           Spirituality, Pride of Knowledge, Pride
                           of Power and Pride of Appearance. So I went
                           back to my wife and said, "Hey honey, I think I
                           found out the root of all of our problems in
                           marriage and work and ministry and all that.
                           ME!!! I'm the problem. Listen to this list of
                           signs of pride that I found." I started reading
                           my list to her and she laughed and said, "Wow!
                           You are prideful. I didn't know that's what
                           pride looked like." So I asked her to pray for
                           me. And then said, "Oh, and there were some
                           other signs that I found on the list." Her jaw
                           dropped as I read hers. She said, "Oh no! I
                           didn't realize I was so prideful either. Will
                           you pray for me too?"
                           God had been resisting me. It was like his palm
                           was firmly planted in my forehead as I walked
--
                           unmerited favor) to the humble. Could it be
                           that God is resisting you in your relationships
                           or business or church or whatever area of your
                           life? Only by pride comes contention.
                           There are about 24 different categories one
                           could be prideful in. Most people are pretty
                           humble in most categories and just prideful in
                           one or two. You’ll see your relatives, spouse,
                           boss, employees, friends and president all over
                           this list. But don't forget this. Pride is one
                           of the most destructive and heinous sins you
                           can commit.
                           My dad used to say, “The reason we shouldn’t
--
                           should try not to sin because it hurts our
                           relationship with God.
                           Ever heard this? “Yeah, maybe I’ve got a little
                           pride. But if you want to get along with me
                           you’ve just got to grow a pair. It’s just the
                           way I am and you’ll just have to deal with it”.
                           For you to know you have even a little bit
                           of pride and not care about it, is to raise
                           your fist in God’s face and say, “Hey God, I
                           don’t care that I’m regularly walking and
                           living in this sin of pride and I’m okay with
                           not having all that great of a relationship
                           with you either”. If that’s you, then watch
                           out. God is resisting you and you have some
--
                           abhors, tears down, brings down. has scattered,
                           is scornful to, reprimands, will punish, is
                           angry at, every arrogant person, those who have
                           a proud look, those whose pride wells up,
                           arrogant scoffers. “The prideful man – ‬‭will
                           be brought low, humiliated, disgraced, doomed,
                           destroyed, humbled, will not go unpunished, was
                           deposed from his royal throne and his honor was
--
                           2:11,12‬‭‬,10:12, 2 Chr. 32:25, Dan.‬ ‭5:20,
                           Luke 1:51, James 4:6. This is a really serious
                           thing.
                           We’ll never conquer pride, but if we know what
                           it looks like when it flares up, we can knock
                           it back down before too much damage is done. If
                           people can’t recognize what the signs of cancer
                           look like, then they'll never know they need
                           help. I hope this list helps you understand
                           what pride looks like as much as it's helped
                           me.

How They Define Pride
                           Our SELF or Ego is basically who we are as a
                           person. It’s not good or bad, it’s just what
                           makes us, us. Unhealthy pride happens when we
                           do or say things for the purpose of people
                           praising our SELF or for making our SELF feel
                           good or putting our SELF ahead of someone
                           else's SELF. Pride wants our SELF to be
                           praised, get glory, be worshiped and be highly
                           talked about, even when we’re not in the room.
                           Unhealthy pride can give us an elevated view of
                           our own SELF that is not accurate, but we truly
                           start to believe it and act to reinforce what
                           we've come to believe as true. And when someone
                           questions or challenges the view of our SELF as
                           not accurate, the fireworks begin.
                           Here are some of the definitions of pride I
                           found
                              - Pride is being SELF-ish
                              - Thinking excessively about SELF
                              - Pride’s base is too much SELF-love
                              - Thinking the worth of our SELF is higher
                                than it actually is
                              - SELF-worship
                              - Preoccupation with our image or SELF
                              - Pride is narcissism (in love with our
                                image or SELF)
                              - Pride is SELF-centered or EGO-centric
                                (everything revolves around us)
                              - Pride wants to keep the focus on SELF
                              - SELF-ness
                           "Satan disguises submission to himself under
                           the ruse of personal autonomy. He never asks us
--
                           of sin." - Dennis F. Kinlaw (1922 - 2017)
                           “Instead of being motivated by SELF-ish
                           ambition or vanity, each of you should, in
                           humility (THE OPPOSITE OF PRIDE OR SELF-ISH),
                           be moved to treat one another as more important
                           than your SELF. Each should be concerned not
                           only about your own interests, but about the
--
                           envious. Love does not brag, it is not puffed
                           up. It is not rude, it is not SELF-serving, it
                           is not easily angered or resentful." (All
                           the negatives are symptoms of pride) I
                           Corinthians 13:4-5
                           The same list of examples of what pride looks
                           like, is here twice, one after the other. The
                           first list immediately below does not have much
                           explanation attached to the signs of pride.
                           Further down the page is the same list, but
                           with a much fuller explanation of each sign of
                           pride with some links to deeper
                           explanations. If you don’t agree, then google
                           “pride defensiveness” or "pride depression” or
                           “pride low self esteem” or “pride critical” to
                           learn why so many people consider it a sign of
                           pride. But be careful not to judge a person's
                           heart because of their actions or words. You
                           can't always tell. A friend of mine, who is a
                           huge servant and genuinely humble, told me that
--
                           they think I'm humble". Don't try to play God
                           and judge the heart.

Pride of Spirituality
                           Try really hard to confirm the fact that
                           they’re spiritual
                           Asceticism - They reject money, pleasure, joy,
--
                                absolutely have no intention of praying
                                for it. But it sounds spiritual for sure.
                           False Humility - Humility is seeing yourself
                           and what you do the way it actually is. Pride
                           is not seeing yourself or what you do the way
                           it actually is.
                             1. Don’t accept compliments, but instead say,
--
                             3. Tell you that they’re humble, “In my
                                humble opinion”

Pride of Knowledge
                           Try really hard to confirm the fact that
                           they’re smart
                           Unteachable
--
                                political beliefs
                           Defensive when corrected or criticized - If you
                           ever get defensive in marriage, then you have
                           pride and it has to be dealt with. We think the
                           best defense is a great offense when our pride
                           is hurt. “With pride comes only
                           contention...”Proverbs‬ ‭13:10
                             1. Attack back when questioned or confronted
                                about a mistake or wrong
--
                             5. Don’t show much mercy
                             6. Mean spirited

Pride of Power
                           Try really hard to confirm the fact that
                           they’re capable. “But once he became powerful,
                           his pride destroyed him. He disobeyed the LORD
                           his God...” ‭‭2 Chronicles‬ ‭26:16‬
                           Controlling - Being obeyed gives their SELF a
                           nice feeling, sense of power
--
                                SELF feeling good
                           Low SELF-esteem or SELF-worth - Humility is
                           seeing your own SELF the way it actually is.
                           Pride is not seeing your own SELF the way it
                           actually is
                             1. Constantly thinking of their SELF and what
                                others think about it
--
                           Depression - There are a lot of legitimate
                           medical and traumatic reasons for depression.
                           Focus on SELF and believing what’s not true
                           about their SELF is a very common one. Pride is
                           a major cause of depression for hundreds of
                           millions of people (much more about why this is
                           here, on the second list)
--
                                things or success won’t happen
                             5. Believe other people are envious of them

Pride of Appearance
                           Try really hard to impress people with their
                           looks or physique - Synonyms - Narcissistic,
                           SELF-love, Conceited, SELF-glorification,
--
                           Two things to remember:
                           1. Don't shoot the messenger. I'm just
                           reporting the facts, ma'am. These signs of
                           pride are what I found and copied down and
                           then consolidated here for your reading
                           pleasure. Most were on several of the lists.
                           2. If you only saw your SELF in a couple of
                           places on this list, then you just have a
                           little bit of cancer. You need to be desperate
                           for treatment. Everyone is infected with Pride.
                           Don't be okay with it. This is serious.
                            “But then Hezekiah and the residents of
                           Jerusalem humbled themselves and abandoned
                           their pride, and the LORD was not angry with
                           them for the rest of Hezekiah’s reign." ‭‭2
                           Chronicles‬ ‭32:26
                           “if my people who are called by my name humble
--
                           said, “repentant or remorseful”. When my wife
                           and I read the list and saw ourselves on it in
                           some places, we immediately pleaded with God to
                           help us keep our pride down and be more humble.
                           We don’t want it at all and we are really sorry
                           that we have been so prideful for so long. And
                           now we question ourselves all the time, “Is
                           what I’m about to say or what I just said,
                           prideful? Because we really don’t want to be
                           prideful, even though we still act pridefully.
                           But a lot less. This is exactly what God wants
                           from us. A humble spirit and a contrite heart.
                           "For thus says the High and Lofty One Who
--
                           spirit of the humble, And to revive the heart
                           of the contrite ones.'" – Isaiah 57:15

Three Pride Illustrations

Fighter in the Ring
                           We are in a fight with Prideman, a 600 lb 1%
                           body fat former Navy Seal, who has us by
                           the ankles slamming us down over and over
                           again. It’s a tag team match and God is
--
                           keep on saying, “No, I’m alright God. I’ve got
                           this, but would you mind helping me by
                           squirting some water in my mouth next time
                           around?” as Prideman keeps slamming us over and
                           over again. There may be 21 of the pride
                           categories where we don’t struggle, but one
                           area where we do. I encourage you to be
                           Humbleman and tag God’s hand to wage war for
                           you in that category. “God, I’m ready for you
                           to fight Prideman instead of me. I can’t do it.
                           You need to take over completely.” That’s what
                           humble people say.
                           My SELF says, “No, I can handle this! I just
--
                           the mighty hand of God, that He may exalt you
                           in due time…" 1 Pet. 5:6

Pride Monster
                           Imagine you’re in a canoe and there is a big
                           pride sea-monster that never stops chasing you
                           and it wants to eat you and it’s coming up and
                           down in the water chasing right behind you. So
                           you paddle like crazy to not get bit. Imagine
                           you paddle super hard for a long time and you
                           get really far ahead of it and so you put down
                           your paddle and kick up your feet and take a
                           break. And that’s when the pride monster
                           catches up to you and bites you hard.

Two Dogs
                           Two hungry dogs and only one dish of food. The
                           dog who eats the most is the one who gets
                           stronger and wins the fight. Pridedog is more
                           aggressive and pushier than Humbledog and so
                           pushes Humbledog out of the way and eats all of
                           the food unless someone purposefully pulls back
                           on Pridedog’s chain. That is when Humbledog
                           eats all of the food and wins. Here are some
                           things you can do to feed Humbledog.
                              - Be thankful everyday by telling God 20
--
                                your name? How long have you lived here?
                                Why did you move here? What do you do? How
                                did you get interested in that?
                              - Share your pride struggles with people
                                close to you and ask them to pray for you
                                and to tell you when they see your signs
                                of pride.

How Extreme Pride Slips In
                           Particularly for public figures like pastors,
                           CEO’s, singers, athletes, actors and actresses,
                           pride slips in subtly and undetected. And after
                           several years of being innocently complimented
                           and praised, we start believing things about
                           our SELF (ego) that are over-inflated above
--
                           a pastor.

How Humility Happens to Hard People
                           They say that pride is the last thing to leave
                           before a lot of people come to Christ. They’re
                           tired of trying to fight it on their own and
                           when they’ve tried everything else and have
                           been humbled, then they turn to God. They say,
                           “God, I’ve got a problem with pride and I’m
                           asking that YOU wage war on it. I’ll stand
                           aside. Please fight it for me.” Until a person
                           gets to that point and is serious, Life’s not
--
                           spouse, the kids, a job or a few nights in the
                           car before someone raises their hand and says,
                           “Hi, my name is Ronald McDonald and I’m a
                           pride-a-holic and I need help.”
                           Self-Centered Churches and Man Boobs
                           I was listening to a non faith based marriage
                           book the other day and the author said that
                           Narcissism and Grandiosity (both forms of
                           pride) are a huge problem in America. A lot of
                           it started in the early 1970’s when personal
                           trainers and tons of self help books became
                           super common.  “You can do it. You’ve got what
                           it takes. You are worth it. There are no
                           losers. We don’t keep score. We don’t give
                           grades. Everybody wins and everybody passes.”
                           We clearly live in a self-centered (prideful)
                           society. So how wouldn’t that not bleed into
                           the church? Most churches rightly have the
                           slogan “To know God and make him known”, but
--

2nd list with more explanation and links to articles

Pride of Spirituality

Appearing Really Spiritual
                           People should be spiritually minded. God loves
--
                           Rejection of Material Possessions Sometimes
                           with good intentions, people think that God is
                           pleased when we don’t have things of value.
                           Righteous living. And then in their pride can
                           say, “If only those materialistic people were
                           as righteous as I”.
                              - Reject money, fame, joy or pleasure (also
--
Spiritualize everything
                              - They only talk about spiritual things so
                                that people will think they’re spiritual.
                              - Prideful people spruce up their public
                                prayers with churchy vocabulary or higher
                                volume that they never use when talking to
                                God alone, to make sure people recognize
--
                                that those listening are impressed with us
                                and think, “That guy is a real spiritual
                                man. He sure can pray”, then that’s always
                                pride.
                              - Practice their public prayers
                              - Prideful people often speak differently,
                                use a different accent or voice or put on
                                a different face or behavior to help
                                people recognize that they’re spiritual.
--
                                spouses and church members.

False Humility
                           Prideful people fake their humility. They try
                           extra hard to be humble for the purpose of
                           people thinking that they’re humble so they’ll
                           be praised for being so humble. A very humble
--
                           “I bet they think I’m pretty humble”. That’s
                           not True Humility. It’s called False Humility.
                           It’s just a matter of the heart.
                              - Prideful put themselves down as if they
                                are lower than everybody else. This may
                                even flow from a genuine desire for
                                humility, but humility is seeing your SELF
                                the way you accurately are. Pride is
                                seeing your SELF NOT the way you actually
                                are.
                              - Treat themselves badly - “I am not worthy”
                                or “I’m a loser”.
                              - Prideful people don’t easily accept
                                compliments. They put one hand in front of
                                you like they’re stopping traffic and with
                                the other they point to the heavens while
--
                                them, “That really seemed like it was all
                                you. If it had been God, then it would
                                have been WAY better than that”. Their
                                pride wants those watching to say, “Whoa,
                                that guy is humble. He must be really
                                spiritual”. The right response would be to
                                say something that is actually true,
--
                                “Thank you for the kind words. Mom and Dad
                                made me take lessons for years and
                                years.”
                              - Prideful people skillfully brag in a
                                humble way. “Can you believe how great God
                                is. They asked me to speak at the Prayer
                                Breakfast again.” or “Please pray for my
--
                                because if they just flat out bragged
                                about their SELF, they wouldn’t look too
                                spiritual.
                              - Prideful people tell you they’re humble
                                and say, “In my humble opinion”.
                              - Only confess insignificant sins - Prideful
                                people confess little sins and say things
                                like, “I really struggle with coveting my
                                neighbor’s old Toyota Land Cruiser
--
                                makes them feel better about their own
                                failings.

Pride of Knowledge
                           They try really hard to make sure people think
                           they’re smart
                           “The wise person accepts instructions, but the
--
                           the Bible. He looked at me and asked, “But what
                           could I learn?” He felt he knew everything
                           already.
                              - Prideful people say they don’t need to be
                                trained or educated because that would
                                mean their SELF wasn’t capable enough to
                                be successful without someone’s help.
                                Prideful people want to say, “I became a
                                successful and accomplished self-made man
                                by myself. I didn’t need anyone to teach
                                me anything because I’m that smart or
                                capable. I’m sure you’re impressed with
                                me”.
                              - Prideful people think they have all the
                                answers to life and somehow don’t need or
                                see the value in other people’s
                                perspectives.
--
                              - Though credentials and titles are
                                sometimes necessary to establish authority
                                so they’ll listen to or negotiate with
                                you, prideful people insist on a lofty
                                title or talk a lot about their
                                credentials so that others will be more
                                impressed and think more highly of them.
--
                              - Assume they know all there is about the
                                subject and so tune out
                              - Don’t listen to those they lead
                              - Prideful people listen to others just to
                                see if they can fix them or bless and
                                impress them with their wisdom and
                                knowledge.

Argumentative
                           Prideful people argue strange, new or
                           uncommonly held beliefs or doctrines and argue
                           them well so that people are impressed with
                           their intellect.
                              - They get the last word
                              - Prideful people don’t discuss their
                                differences with the hope of possibly
                                learning something. They argue to show how
                                much they know.
                              - Prideful people don’t hesitate confronting
                                someone to say what they think is right.
                              - They can’t handle being wrong.
                              - Argue and hold to strange or uncommonly
--
                           Unnecessary criticism is just mean. It tears
                           down, doesn’t help and makes people feel bad.
                           It is usually based in poor self-worth and
                           shame. Prideful people measure themselves
                           against others. When someone near them does a
                           good thing, it makes their SELF feel inferior,
                           and so they tear them down for no reason other
--
                              - Always give the punishment deserved
                                instead of showing mercy

Pride of Power
                           Thinking that they’re more important than
                           others or trying to make sure people think
                           they’re capable.

Pride and a Controlling Nature
                           Here is a comprehensive article full of
                           psychobabble about why the need to control,
                           feel superior and be mean to others is such a
                           huge sign of
                           pride.http://mindrenewal.us/page6.html

Control
                           Control is trying to give yourself security.
                           But remember, you are one cancer cell away from
                           being in control.
                              - Prideful people control their spouse,
                                children, friends and co-workers.
                              - Prideful parents create dependent children
                                by providing everything for them and not
                                letting them suffer the consequences of
                                their irresponsible actions. They want to
                                keep them around to be needed. A form of
                                control.
                              - Prideful people manipulate to get their
                                way by throwing their wedding ring across
                                the room or throw some sort of tantrum
                                whether it’s really quiet or really loud.
                                They try to condition you to go with their
                                idea everytime.
                              - Prideful people say it’s my way or no way.
                                They threaten to boycott the trip or
                                activity by saying, “Nevermind, I don’t
                                even want to go now” if they don’t get
--
                           or smoke cigars or play poker or say ‘darn or
                           gosh’ or get a tattoo or pierce your nose or
                           read any version of the Bible other than the
                           King James Version or or…. This form of Pride
                           has kept more people away from God than maybe
                           any other. I know so many people raised in
                           legalistic homes who now, as adults, mock
--
                           gosh’ or get a tattoo or pierce your nose

Submission
                           Prideful people don’t submit easily and rebel
                           against their leaders, spiritual or secular and
                           falsely see it as a weaker position. God as our
                           leader. Wives against their husbands; children
--
                           humble and listen to those they lead,
                           especially when their initial thought wasn’t as
                           good as someone else’s.
                           Prideful people don’t like being told what to
                           do. This doesn’t mean to not question or share
                           wisdom with our leaders, but without a fight,
                           submit.

Hungry for Attention
                           Prideful people get hurt and resent it if they
                           aren’t made mention of and recognized for their
                           accomplishments, acts of service or
                           selflessness. They say and do things for
--
                           take great notice of them and regard them
                           highly and talk about them when they’re not
                           there.
                           Prideful people lie. They don’t just embellish
                           a story to make it more entertaining but flat
                           out lie with numbers and circumstances to make
                           their SELF look better.
--
                                pray?

Take Credit for Things
                              - Prideful people lie to take credit for
                                things they didn’t do.
                              - Prideful people don’t give compliments or
                                credit to people who deserve it because
                                they think it makes them look bad in
                                contrast.
                              - Don’t like to share praise with others
                              - Prideful people don’t need to pray because
                                that would mean God did it and they
                                wouldn’t get credit for it.
                              - Prideful people shoot down other people’s
                                good ideas because it wasn’t their own and
                                even condition others to eventually stop
                                sharing ideas. They make fun of them or
--
                                not wise for saying that.

Workaholic
                           Prideful people are serve or work obsessed,
                           addicted to power and control in a compulsive
                           drive to gain approval and public recognition
                           of success. They believe that their SELF or
--
                           https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.psychologytoda
                           y.com/us/blog/the-workaholics/201112/understand
                           ing-the-dynamics-workaholism%3famp
                              - Prideful people in leadership positions
                                don’t delegate as often as they should
                                because no one can do it as well or as
                                quickly as they could.

Crave Importance
                           Prideful people feel and believe that value is
                           added to their SELF because of their status or
                           accomplishments. They feel that they are worth
                           more by doing or appearing a certain way.
--
                                beyond when they had agreed. His wife told
                                my wife, “He’s the proudest man I know”.

Overachiever Pride
                              - Sometimes when a child didn’t feel
                                unconditionally loved by their parents or
                                guardians just for who they were, but only
--
                           True humility isn’t thinking less of your SELF,
                           but thinking of your SELF less. Here is a great
                           psychobabble article about why low self esteem
                           and depression is a huge sign of pride.
                           Humility is seeing your SELF the way it
                           actually is. Knowing what is true about who you
                           are. If you are a naturally gifted musician or
--
                           or don’t have much fashion sense, they are
                           comfortable admitting it because it’s true
                           about their SELF.
                           Pride is NOT seeing your SELF the way it
                           actually is. Not believing what is accurate and
                           true. If you’re a physically attractive person
                           but tell everyone that you’re ugly or if you
                           have a very likable personality but say that
                           people don’t like you, then that is pride
                           because it isn’t true. Prideful people who
                           aren’t very good at coming up with creative
                           marketing ideas or who are clearly not very
                           good at leading people, won’t stop insisting
                           that they are and are offended if someone
                           speaks the truth to them. Prideful people don’t
                           believe what is true about their SELF.
                              - Won’t ask for forgiveness because that
                                would mean that their SELF isn’t great and
--
                                to think highly of them.

Embarrassed easily
                           Embarrassment is a sign that pride is being
                           attacked.
                             1. Prideful people think they’re above doing
                                lowly tasks and immediately think, “I, of
                                all people, shouldn’t have to do that.
                                That task is for someone lower than
                                myself.”
                             2. Prideful people fear people seeing them
                                doing lowly tasks because they fear that
                                others will think they must not be very
                                powerful or important if they have to do a
                                lowly task.
                             3. Prideful people wait to be served and
                                don’t often serve others because they
                                don’t think of others as more important
                                than themselves.
                             4. Prideful people think they’re better than
                                others. This one can be hard to detect
                                because a person can appear to be humble
                                and caring on the outside.
                             5. Prideful people are easily offended when
                                others question their motives or ability
                                to do something. They say, “Don’t you
                                trust me” or “Don’t you think I know what
--
                           their SELF is true. It is especially hard on
                           them when someone who is their equal rises
                           above them economically or in social standing.
                             1. Prideful people believe others are envious
                                of them because “wouldn’t everybody be
                                envious of what I’ve got?”
                             2. Prideful are envious when the spotlight is
                                on someone they feel they are superior to.
                                Then they whisper to the person next to
                                them, “They’re not all that”.
                             3. Prideful people sabotage other people’s
                                work or don’t use someone else’s good idea
                                because they think that if that person is
                                praised, then they will look lesser.

Materialism
                           Prideful people try to impress with their
                           success by showing us their possessions.
                           Prideful people are not generous with their
                           money. They are SELF-ish and would rather use
                           their money to buy things that they feel
                           validate their untrue feelings of who they
--
Defensiveness
                              - Think the best defense is a great offense
                                when their SELF feels attacked (when their
                                pride is hurt).
                              - They condition people to NEVER confront
                                them again by attacking them back with
                                their past mistakes or failures so it
                                takes the focus off of the prideful
                                person’s problem.
                              - Prideful people make up excuses when
                                they’re corrected or criticized.
                              - Prideful people say things like,
                                “Everybody makes mistakes” or “you make
                                mistakes too” when they have no choice but
                                to accept blame.
--
                           There are a lot of legitimate medical and
                           traumatic reasons for depression. Focus on SELF
                           and believing what’s not true about their SELF,
                           is a common reason. Pride is a major cause of
                           depression for millions of people.

Shyness
                           We can be wired as introverts purposefully by
                           God from birth. This isn’t about introverts or
                           extroverts
                              - Prideful people are very shy. They are
                                overly concerned with others’ opinions of
                                them which is usually a reflection of
                                being obsessed with self.
                              - Prideful people don’t invite people to
                                their home because it’s not nice enough or
                                they can’t afford to entertain big.
                              - Prideful people have a hard time sharing
                                their real spiritual needs or other junk
                                because they’re afraid they won’t be liked
                                anymore.
                              - Prideful people fear what people will
                                think of them and are overly consumed with
                                man’s opinion of their SELF which is
                                usually a sign of obsession with self.
                              - Prideful people don’t like reaching out
                                and being friendly at church or in other
                                social settings.

Pride of Appearance
                           They try really hard to make sure people think
                           they’re valuable and they believe their SELF is
                           more valuable if it looks good
                           Arrogance, Immodesty, Narcissism, Pomposity,
                           Pride, Self-Importance, Self-Love, Self-regard,
                           smugness, swagger, self-admiration,
                           self-exaltation, swelled head, conceited,
                           display, pretension, self-worship, show,
                           ostentation,
                           We should take healthy pride in our appearance
                           and do the best with what we’ve got and for our
                           spouse. Dignity is a good thing. But this is
                           not:

Understanding Why We Have Pride and How it Works
                           God wants us to be proud of our work or family
                           or to try the best with what we’ve got. And
                           when we’re recognized and affirmed for doing
                           well, it feels good and right. That’s healthy
                           pride. The apostle Paul said that he was
                           “proud” of some of the early churches.
                           When we’re supported, protected and affirmed
                           growing up, then that builds a solid firm
--
                           accurate about us. And that’s when the praise
                           and worship of us starts and that makes us
                           think that what we believe about our SELF is
                           true. Pride can even distort our mind to think
                           that even our junk is good and right.

Conclusion
                           I really hope this list and explanation has
                           helped you understand what pride really looks
                           like and has given you a desire to not have it
                           in your life. And remember, don’t shoot the
                           messenger.
