    #About Islam » Why is Pride Such a Big Sin in Islam? Comments Feed
   alternate alternate

   [tr?id=3176153362654970&ev=PageView&noscript=1]
--
     * ›
     * Ask About Islam
     * ›
     * Why is Pride Such a Big Sin in Islam?

   aaa

Why is Pride Such a Big Sin in Islam?

   15 September, 2020
   Q Assalamu alaikum, may Allah's blessings be upon you.My question is
   regarding the idea of pride. I understand that it does not lie in
   honesty and decency for one to have the intention to show off in front
   of another while performing an action, as in this case, it equates to
   the action not being done at all, due to insincerity and impurity of
--
   such intentions.But I would like to know, just to understand this whole
   thing better, why does one attach such ideas and intentions to actions
   that are meant to help us find our own truth? In short, I would like to
   know more about why pride (that leads one to show off) is so sinful and
   wrong , even if it's only a small feeling of it.

Answer
--
   15 September, 2020

   Short Answer:
     * When pride finds its way into the hearts of Muslims, it quickly
       affects the way we talk, act and treat others. This is why it
       should be avoided and we should stay away from it just like any
       other sin.
--

   Thank you for your question,

Why is Pride Such a Big Sin in Islam?

   Prophet Muhammad said,

--
     arrogance in his/her heart.” (Tirmidhi)

   All human beings have the tendency to become proud but there are
   different degrees of pride. It could be so little that it becomes
   unnoticeable and yet it could grow to be eventually a larger amount.
   That is why we always pray to Allah not to make us among the proud and
   arrogant people.

   Ads by Muslim Ad Network

   Pride brings confusion in the religion of Allah and thus it corrupts
   the heart and prevents it from thinking about over the verses of the
   Quran.

How salah (prayers) curbs pride

   As Muslims, Allah commanded us not to bow before anyone but him. That
   is why performing Salah is very important in Islam because Prophet
--
   before anyone but Him.

   Islam teaches us to be humble to one another. One of the
   characteristics of a good Muslim is humbleness and humility, pride is a
   characteristic of Satan. Pride could make people disobedient towards
   the teachings of Prophet Muhammad.

The negative effects of pride

   It is only pride that will make a Muslim not forgive another Muslim,
   when their forgiveness is being asked. Hence, a proud person will start
   thinking that he or she is better than others, forgetting that we were
   all created from clay and we have a grave to go to and Allah to answer
   to.

   Pride causes people not to be content and they are eternally in pursuit
   of power and position. Pride pushes people away from the religion of
   Allah and the curse of Allah is on the proud and arrogant.

     “I am better than him (Adam), You created me from fire, and him You
     created from clay.”

   Allah Almighty said in Noble Quran about the greatest sin arrogance
   (pride) in these words:

     “[To them] it will be said, “Enter the gates of Hell to abide
     eternally therein, and wretched is the residence of the arrogant”
     (Quran, 39:72).

   According to the Holy Quran, arrogance (pride) is the sin that will be
   severely punished by Allah Almighty. Our beloved Prophet Muhammad said
   that pride is the disease which is the greatest sin in the sight of
   Allah Almighty; one who is proud is arrogant. People who are arrogant
   will not enter paradise.

   People who live in a state of pride and betrayal reside in a dark
   internal world full of a extreme fear of losing, making a mistake,
   being humiliated, stress, doubt, hatred, anger, and passion.

--
   they never find peace in life. Like sea salt water, the thirst is never
   quenched with it.

   When pride finds its way into the hearts of Muslims, it quickly affects
   the way we talk, act and treat others. This is why it should be avoided
   and we should stay away from it just like any other sin.

--
   https://aboutislam.net/multimedia/videos/what-is-the-nafs/embed/#?secre
   t=ypqwSq7vM7

     Faith Between Pride and Arrogance

   IFRAME:
   https://aboutislam.net/counseling/ask-about-islam/faith-pride-arrogance
   /embed/#?secret=Yyu7G7J9Fa

   arrogance pride I have kibr (pride) Humble submission in Prayer being
   proud destroy arrogance remove pride from your heart
   About Aa’isha Varma
   Aa’isha Varma is a 6-year revert to Islam. Born into Hindu culture, she
   embarked on a spiritual journey, first reverting to Buddhism, and then
