   #ADORNED HEART » Feed ADORNED HEART » Comments Feed ADORNED HEART » 38
   Signs Of Pride In A Person Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

     * About Us
          + Contributors
--

   healing

38 Signs Of Pride In A Person

   January 3, 2022 /

--
     * Tweet
     * (BUTTON) Pin

   Too much pride will cause problems in your relationships, jobs,
   friendships, and ultimately every area of your life. Unfortunately,
   pride makes it hard to grow because the pain inside causes information
   to be filtered wrong and in a way that it doesn’t hurt the ego. Often a
   prideful person doesn’t know how severe their pride is.

   The pride within the person is there to protect their VERY fragile ego.
   For instance, if you point out flawed behavior in a prideful person
   they won’t be able to accept it OR won’t be able to see the truth.
   Especially if that behavior is very embarrassing for them. The fragile
   ego of others will push them to use different types of unhealthy coping
--
   downplaying their own actions, be offended you accused them, and many
   other unhealthy coping mechanisms.

   Unfortunately, many that struggle with pride lack support because
   “pride” and “ego” stop them from asking for help. Or they don’t have
   the right type of support because the pride causes one to avoid/refuse
   to take constructive criticism from anyone. And a prideful person may
   feel afraid of vulnerability or be unwilling to feel inferior to the
   person giving the help.

What causes pride?

   The ultimate cause of pride is trying to fix our low self-esteem,
   unworthiness, and fears in our own strength. Pride damages your career
   and relationships because you are only pretending to be confident,
   strong, and bold.
     * 7 Root Causes of Pride + tips to be more humble:
          + #1 Trying to fix everything.
          + #2 Fear of humility.
          + #3 Fear of Vulnerability.
--
          + #6 Impossible standards of perfection.
          + #7 Thinking you are not all-knowing.

Signs Of Pride In A Person

   1. If people don’t take my advice, they’ll regret it later.

--

   26. I have a hard time complimenting other people.

   Related Quiz: Am I Prideful?

   27. I pretend I’m doing great, when I’m falling apart inside.

--
   35. I often point out the errors of others because seeing imperfections
   annoys me.

   36. If someone criticizes me then I assume they are prideful.

   37. When someone is sharing their feelings or perspective, I interrupt
   them to correct facts.
--
Uneke simmons
       July 17, 2023 at 11:00 am Reply
       I am thankful to have came across these insightful words. I never
       knew all the things that were added into being prideful and now
       thanks to GOD putting a scripture into my Bible reading this
       morning which was right on time I then started researching what are
       prideful ways and I came across your insights thank you so much
       ????????????✨
          +

--
            August 6, 2023 at 12:59 am Reply
            You’re most welcome! I’m grateful to hear that you found the
            insights helpful and timely. It’s wonderful that God’s Word
            led you to discover more about prideful ways and provided you
            with the information you needed. Remember, seeking wisdom and
            understanding is a continuous journey, and I’m glad I could
            play a small part in assisting you on that path. May your
