   [p?c1=2&c2=6035250&cv=2.0&cj=1&cs_ucfr=0&comscorekw=Art%2CLGBTQ%2B+righ
   ts%2CPride%2CExhibitions%2CArt+and+design%2CCulture] Skip to main
   contentSkip to navigationSkip to navigation

   Print subscriptions
--
   Photograph: David Fenton/Getty Images
   Art

The best US exhibitions and art events for Pride month

   This year’s annual celebration of LGBTQ+ culture and history offers up
   a diverse set of exhibitions, screenings and happenings
--
     *
     *

   With Pride Month now upon us, festivities across the United States will
   create safe spaces while celebrating the lives and journeys of LGBTQ+
   individuals everywhere. In addition to the countless Pride parades and
   festivities, queer creators and their art will also be centered this
   year – many art galleries, museums and other art spaces will be staging
   amazing art exhibitions, movie screenings and more throughout the month
--
   Gabriel García Román, whose vivid multimedia art presents layers of
   queer identity on individual portraits.

Pride at Mia

   A still from Kiki.
   A still from Kiki. Photograph: PR

   The Minneapolis Institute of Art offers a variety of events to bring
   Pride to museumgoers. Festivities kick off on 2 June with a gathering
   in the park capped off by a screening of Kiki, seen by many critics as
   a sequel of sorts to the landmark documentary Paris Is Burning, updated
   for an era of Black Lives Matter and renewed focus on trans rights.
   Another must-see event is the 22 June Pride Panel and Activations,
   featuring local artists including Kehayr Brown-Ransaw, Trista Marie
   McGovern, Julia Starr, giving them space to share details of the
   intersection of their artistic practices and queer identities.

Pride Not Prejudice

   A group show of 28 LGBTQ+ California artists, Pride Not Prejudice is
   the jewel in the Sausalito Art Center’s Pride festivities. The show is
   headlined by Homosocial, a project by artist Brian Van Camerik in which
   he takes photos of same-gendered couples and displays them in various
   forms, including homemade reliquaries, offering a deep dive into the
--
   artist practice draws from cartoons and breaks down stereotypes around
   Black individuals.

Pride: In Retrospect

   An installation image from Pride: In Retrospect.
   An installation image from Pride: In Retrospect. Photograph: Newport
   Art Museum

   The Newport Art Museum offers audiences a photographic journey through
--
   Stonewall uprising of 1969 – largely credited with launching the modern
   fight for equality in the LGBTQ+ community – and the first Queer
   Liberation March of 1970, which marked the first anniversary of
   Stonewall and is widely known as the first annual June Pride parade.
   Images on display include activists marching at the 1980 New York Pride
   Parade, a memorial to the Pulse nightclub atrocity, and the historic
   Stonewall Inn.

--
   scuba diving; and Théo Nguyen, a queer Vietnamese American artist
   working in watercolors, gouache, pencils and the iPad app Procreate.

Take Pride! A Retrospective of LGBTQ+ Life in South Florida

   Fort Lauderdale’s Take Pride! offers a photographic exhibit during
   Pride month chronicling the struggle for equal rights in south Florida,
   as well as the development of the thriving LGBTQ+ community in the
   area, covering the 1940s through the present. On view of Galleria Fort
   Lauderdale, the show of photographs, video, archival costumes and more
--
   screening of the award-winning short film Open Dialogues, an oral
   history documenting voices from the LGBTQ+ community.

Pride at Whitney

   An image from The Stroll.
   An image from The Stroll. Photograph: HBO
--
   the month, walking tours led from the Whitney will explore the queer
   history of the neighborhood around the museum.

WeHo Pride Arts Festival

   West Hollywood’s signature Pride celebration offers a month-long arts
   festival with exhibitions, marketplaces, performances and more. The
   digital art Angelic Troublemakers Exhibition runs all month at the West
   Hollywood library, while the Indigenous Korean American transgender
--
   Explore more on these topics
     * Art
     * LGBTQ+ rights
     * Pride
     * Exhibitions
     * features

