   Search Pittwire
   Search
   Search www.pitt.edu
   Four students holding pride flags on the lawn in front of the Cathedral
   of Learning
   Features & Articles

Catch these Pittsburgh Pride Month events

   June 12, 2023
   Tags
--
   Pittsburgh.
   Subscribe

   Pride Month, held each June in commemoration of the Stonewall Uprising,
   is a time for all people to come together to recognize LGBTQ+
   resilience and societal contributions. Explore these local events and
   resources to celebrate and uplift the community.
--
   LGBTQIA+ Banned Book Club will receive a free copy of “Gender Queer: A
   Memoir” by Maia Kobabe. Register to attend.

A day of neighborhood pride

Saturday, June 17, various times

   There are plenty of opportunities to share and show off your pride no
   matter your neighborhood. Check out free festivals in Mt. Lebanon,
   Bellevue and Lawrenceville, which is hosting its first pride event this
   year.

Celebrate with Pitt organizations

Tuesday, June 20, 11 a.m.-2 p.m.

   Discover departments and resources from across the University at Pride
   on the Patio. Also enjoy free food and take-away items as you gather on
   the William Pitt Union patio and lawn. No registration is required for
   attendees, but there’s still time to reserve a table for your
--

Saturday, June 24, 10 a.m.-11 p.m.

   This year marks the third annual Pride Millvale, a free event in the
   Pittsburgh neighborhood. The volunteer-led festival will host community
   partners, nonprofits, health and wellness resources and a variety of
   vendors.

A pride parade for the people

Sunday, June 25, 10 a.m.

   March through Pittsburgh’s Swissvale neighborhood with SisTers PGH
   during the nonprofit’s annual People’s Pride event. The march will
   conclude at Dickson Elementary School, where an outdoor festival will
   showcase five local artists as well as headliner Durand Bernarr. Event
   programming this year is focused around improving housing access in
--

   — Nora Smith, photography by Aimee Obidzinski

The meaning of Pride

   Fifty-four years ago, something important happened that changed the way
   people think about LGBTQIA+ rights. It started at the Stonewall Inn in
--
   years after the riots, she helped create organizations and policies
   that support LGBTQIA+ rights.

   Today, we celebrate this movement every June during Pride Month. Pride
   is not just about parades and celebrations. It's about recognizing the
   power and resilience of the LGBTQIA+ community. Pride is about family,
   community, accepting ourselves, being visible and embracing who we are.
   It reminds us that everyone has the right to be themselves and be
   treated with respect.
--
   to our workspaces, enables us to ask important questions, speak up and
   make positive changes.

   Pride encourages us to break free from the stereotypes and biases that
   limit us. It reminds us that our identities are complex and should be
   celebrated. Sometimes society tries to make us fit into one narrow box,
   but Pride encourages us to be who we are meant to be — not just survive
   but thrive.

   Pride is for everyone, not just LGBTQIA+ individuals. Stretch yourself
   to come together, support one another and work towards a world where
   everyone is treated equally. How can you do this in your space and
   place of work? While we should practice LGBTQIA+ inclusion throughout
   the year, June offers many opportunities at Pitt and in the region to
   get involved and show support for the LGBTQIA+ community.

Learn more about Pride Month

   If you’re unfamiliar with the history behind Pride celebrations and
   LGBTQ+ liberation, June is an excellent time to learn. These resources
   can help:
     * LGBTQIA+ at Pitt
