
   Everyday Power > Inspirational Quotes

70 Pride Quotes to Inspire Confidence in Yourself

   Stephanie Kirby
   By Stephanie Kirby | Published May 9, 2022

   Are you lacking a little confidence?

   It might be time to get in touch with your pride.

   These pride quotes will inspire you into action.

   What do you think of when you hear the word “pride”?

   Many people think of “pride” as being something bad, as in “pride goes
   before the fall”.

   And while it’s true that pride can become negative if you are too
   caught up in it, it’s also important.

   Having pride in yourself, your abilities, and even your surroundings
   can be motivating towards action.

   When people are proud of where they live, they help take care of it.
--
   When a person is proud of their abilities, they aren’t afraid to step
   out and put it to use.

   Healthy pride can build up your confidence as shown in these pride
   quotes.

   Check out our most popular quote article, a list of short inspirational
--
   Check out our inspirational quotes category page for more inspirational
   life quotes.

Pride quotes on the connection between confidence and pride

   1. “Remember, you have been criticizing yourself for years, and it
   hasn’t worked. Try approving of yourself and see what happens.” –
   Louise L. Hay
   pride quotes about approving of yourself and see what happens

   You will also enjoy our article on be yourself quotes.

   2. “One who knows himself is never disturbed by what you think about
   him.” – Osho
   pride quotes about one who knows himself is never disturbed by what you
   think about him

   You will also enjoy our article on proud of you quotes.

   3. “Every woman that finally figured out her worth has picked up her
   suitcases of pride and boarded a flight to freedom, which landed in the
   valley of change.” – Shannon L. Alder
   pride quotes from Shannon L. Alder

   You will also enjoy our article on Pulp Fiction quotes.

   4. “Until you value yourself, you won’t value your time. Until you
   value your time, you will not do anything with it.” — M. Scott Peck
   pride quotes about until you value yourself

   You will also enjoy our article on arrogant quotes.

   5. “Understand: You should be radiating confidence, not arrogance or
   disdain.” – Robert Greene
   pride quotes about confidence

   You will also enjoy our article on self acceptance quotes.

   6. “The world will never value you more than you value yourself.” –
   Bill Masur
   pride quotes about the world will never value you more than you value
   yourself

   You will also enjoy our article on Osho quotes.
--
   7. “Love yourself first and everything else falls into line. You really
   have to love yourself to get anything done in this world.” – Lucille
   Ball
   pride quotes about love yourself

   8. “Don’t be ashamed of anything you’ve gone through. Be proud of
   everything you’ve overcome!” – Phil McGraw
   pride quotes about be proud of everything you’ve overcome!

   9. “You may not control all the events that happen to you, but you can
   decide not to be reduced by them.” – Maya Angelou
   pride quotes about you may not control all the events that happen to
   you

Pride quotes on what it means to be proud

   10. “Pride is holding your head up when everyone around you has theirs
   bowed. Courage is what makes you do it.” ― Bryce Courtenay
   pride quotes about courage is what makes you do it

   11. “Pride helps us, and pride is not a bad thing when it only urges us
   to hide our own hurts—not to hurt others.” ― George Eliot
   pride quotes about not to hurt others

   12. “A healthy self-love means we have no compulsion to justify to
   ourselves or others why we take vacations, why we sleep late, why we
   buy new shoes, why we spoil ourselves from time to time. We feel
   comfortable doing things which add quality and beauty to life.” –
   Andrew Matthews
   pride quotes about a healthy self-love

   13. “Who you are inside is what helps you make and do everything in
   life.” – Fred Rogers
   pride quotes about who you are inside is what helps you make and do
   everything in life

   14. “Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often
   used synonymously. A person may be proud without being vain. Pride
   relates more to our opinion of ourselves, vanity to what we would have
   others think of us.” ― Jane Austen
   pride quotes about vanity and pride are different things

Pride quotes about self-confidence

   15. “I do not care so much what I am to others as I care what I am to
   myself.” ― Michel de Montaigne
   pride quotes about self confidence

   16. “Don’t do things that you know are morally wrong. Not because
   someone is watching, but because you are. Self-esteem is just the
   reputation that you have with yourself. You’ll always know.” – Naval
   Ravikant
   pride quotes about self-esteem is just the reputation

   17. “You’re always with yourself, so you might as well enjoy the
   company.” – Diane Von Furstenberg
   pride quotes about enjoying the company

   18. You yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe, deserve
   your love and affection.” – Buddha
   pride quotes about deserve your love and affection

   19. “One’s dignity may be assaulted, vandalized and cruelly mocked, but
   it can never be taken away unless it is surrendered.” – Michael J. Fox
   pride quotes from Michael J. Fox

   20. “All your life, other people will try to take your accomplishments
   away from you. Don’t you take it away from yourself.” ― Michael
   Crichton
   pride quotes about all your life

   21. “Don’t spend all of your time trying to FIND yourself. Spend your
   time CREATING yourself into a person that you’ll be proud of.” – Sonya
   Parker
   pride quotes about finding yourself

   22. Remember always that you not only have the right to be an
   individual, you have an obligation to be one.” – Eleanor Roosevelt
   pride quotes about obligation to be one

   23. “Too many people overvalue what they are not and undervalue what
   they are.” – Malcolm S. Forbes
   pride quotes about too many people overvalue what they are not and
   undervalue what they are

   24. “Respect your uniqueness, and drop comparison. Relax into your
   being.” – Osho
   If you’re enjoying these quotes, you’ll love our collection of Osho
   quotes on how to live life and find inspiration.
   pride quotes about respect your uniqueness, and drop comparision

   25. “Self-esteem begins with self-understanding, grows with courage and
   perseverance, ends with confidence.” – Maxime Lagacé
   pride quotes about self-esteem and confidence

   26. “Why should we worry about what others think of us, do we have more
   confidence in their opinions than we do our own?” – Brigham Young
--
   27. Self-esteem is made up primarily of two things: feeling lovable and
   feeling capable.” – Jack Canfield

Pride quotes on not allowing confidence to turn into the wrong kind of pride

   28. “Confidence turns into pride only when you are in denial of your
   mistakes.” – Criss Jami

   29. “Ignorance and power and pride are a deadly mixture, you know.” ―
   Robert Fulghum

   30. “The pride of aiming at more knowledge, and pretending to more
   perfection, is the cause of Man’s error and misery.” — Alexander Pope

   31. “Don’t let compliments mess with your head or criticism mess with
--
   you’re wrong and you can’t face it; the other is when you’re right and
   nobody else can face it.” ― Criss Jami

   33. “With pride, there are many curses. With humility, there come many
   blessings.” – Ezra Taft Benson

   34. “If you see anything in yourself which may make you proud, look a
--
   35. “If someone corrects you, and you feel offended, then you have an
   ego problem.” ― Nouman Ali Khan

   36. “Generosity is giving more than you can, and pride is taking less
   than you need.” ― Khalil Gibran

   37. “I could easily forgive his pride if he had not mortified mine.” ―
   Jane Austen

   38. “Pride comes before the fall. Stay humble.” – Unknown

   39. “Be careful, ever so careful, in trumpeting your own achievements,
   and always talk less about yourself than about other people. Modesty is
   generally preferable.” – Robert Greene

   40. “It is better to lose your pride with someone you love rather than
   to lose that someone you love with your useless pride.” ― John Ruskin

More pride quotes

   41. “When you feel nervous, recall your pride.” ― Toba Beta

   42. “It requires strength to accept yourself, and to be proud of
   yourself when you’re aware there’s something extraordinary about you.”
--

   44. “Embrace the glorious mess that you are.” – Elizabeth Gilbert

   45. “Pain goes away, pride lasts forever.” – Unknown

   46. Self-esteem isn’t everything; it’s just that there’s nothing
   without it.” – Gloria Steinem
--
   you come alive. And then go do that. Because what the world needs are
   people who have come alive.” – Harold Whitman

   Pride Quotes To Celebrate One’s Accomplishments

   51. “Few people can walk in your shoes. You are the only one that knows
   your obstacles, challenges, and struggles. Be proud of yourself and the
--
   Patricia Velasquez

   56. “If you want to be proud of yourself, then do things in which you
   can take pride.” — Karen Horney

   57. “Be proud of your scars. They remind you that you have the will to
   live.” – Paulo Coelho
--
   60. “If you do something awesome, you should be proud of yourself.” –
   Damon Lindelof

Pride Quotes Perfect For Your Next Post

   61. “I’ve always been someone who believes in being real and embraces
   my imperfections with pride rather than covering it up.” — Zareen Khan

   62. “Pride will spit in pride’s face.” — Thomas Fuller

   63. “I always take pride in the fact that nobody can mess with me, and
   I never let anybody mess with me my entire life.” — Dean Ambrose

   64. “The greatest pride, or the greatest despondency, is the greatest
   ignorance of one’s self.” — Baruch Spinoza

   65. “It was pride that changed angels into devils; it is humility that
   makes men as angels.” — Augustine of Hippo

   66. “It’s a fine thing to rise above pride, but you must have pride in
   order to do so.” — Georges Bernanos

   67. “It was pride that changed angels into devils; it is humility that
   makes men as angels.” — Augustine of Hippo

   68. “I pride myself on being a good friend, and all my friends can
   attest to that.” — Kyle Richards

   69. “Pride. You have it where you can have it.” ― Marilyn French

   70. “Pride is pleasure arising from a man’s thinking too highly of
   himself.” — Baruch Spinoza

What did you learn from these pride quotes?

   Can you feel your confidence growing just reading through the pride
   quotes above?

   Remember, you don’t have to be perfect in order to have pride in who
   you are.

   Stop comparing yourself to everyone else.
--
   Choose your favorite quote or two and post them up in places where
   you’ll see them throughout the day.

   What’s your biggest takeaway from these pride quotes and sayings?

   Do you have any other helpful quotes to add?

