   #Inspiring Tips » Feed Inspiring Tips » Comments Feed Inspiring Tips »
   11 Signs You Are Prideful: How to Get Rid of Pride in Your Heart
   Comments Feed alternate alternate

   Skip to content
--
     * Spirituality
     * Quotes

11 Signs You Are Prideful: How to Get Rid of Pride in Your Heart

   Last Updated on: May 22, 2022 by Cyril Abello
   FacebookTweetPinLinkedIn
   Getting rid of pride Getting rid of pride Photo by Jason Blackeye
   Contents show
   11 Signs You Are Prideful
   1. You think you are humble.
   2. You do not accept constructive criticisms.
   3. You always want to be the center of attention.
--
   9. You do not like to be surpassed by anyone.
   10. You think you are too important to do mundane things.
   11. You are critical to those who do better than you.
   How to Control Pride and Overcome Arrogance
   20 Ways to Get Rid of Pride Become a Humble Person
   Healthy Pride is Good
   1. Self-confidence is a good pride
   2. Self-respect is a healthy pride
   3. A positive outlook on life
   4. self-esteem
   5. Optimism
   6. Those with healthy pride lead, motivate, and inspire others.
   7. Being able to take care of yourself.
   What are the characteristics of an prideful person?
   1) Being unthankful.
   2) Being arrogant.
   3) Being selfish.
--
   8) Jealous.
   9) Bullying.
   10) Having an attitude of superiority.
   Why is pride so sinful?
   What do the Bible verses say about pride?
   Evaluate Your Heart
   Online courses recommended for you:
   Books recommended for you:
   Gift ideas to help you to be a humble person:

11 Signs You Are Prideful

   How do you know you are struggling with pride? What are the symptoms of
   being prideful? To help you answer these questions and get rid of pride
   in your heart, evaluate yourself by checking out the following signs:

1. You think you are humble.

   One of the signs that you are proud of is that you refuse to admit that
   you struggle with pride. Therefore, calling yourself “humble” is
   actually false humility.

   To avoid this, stop telling yourself—or others—that you are humble. If
--
   that everyone adores you. Do not think that you are more important than
   anyone else. Instead, try living a low-key life.

   ALSO READ: How to Control Pride and Overcome Arrogance

4. You are vain about your physical appearance.

   Being obsessed about making yourself attractive is another hint of
   pride creeping into you. In connection with no. 3, vanity makes you
   flaunt your beauty, hoping that everyone will admire you.

   It is okay to take care of yourself and evaluate your motive for being
   attractive. However, if it is to draw attention to yourself, maybe it
   is time to re-orient yourself about real beauty.
   How to Get Rid of Pride in Your Heart How to Get Rid of Pride in Your
   Heart Photo by Fred-Photos

5. You do not like associating with the “ordinary” or unpopular.
--
   to sit with? Do you immediately look for the table where the “elite”
   sit around? If you think you only deserve professionals and
   “first-class” citizens for your friends and avoid hanging out with
   “low-level” people, then you are clearly prideful.

   To get rid of this attitude, be equal in treating people. Make friends
   not according to social status, but the sincerity of individuals
--
7. You are not teachable.

   Not listening to someone who is trying to teach you something is
   another sign of pride. It is either you think you know things already,
   or you think you know more than the person. It could also mean you
   consider him/her inferior to you.

--

8. You do not listen to others’ advice.

   Prideful people are also stubborn. They think they know everything
   already, so they disregard the counsel of others. You are one of them
   if you brush off the advice of your parents, some elders, or anyone
   else.
--
9. You do not like to be surpassed by anyone.

   Considering others as threats to your position, fame, and success is a
   result of pride. Your achievements could have gotten into your head
   already that you think you should always be the no. 1. Thus, when you
   meet people who have the potential to beat your accomplishments, you
   consider them as rivals.
--
10. You think you are too important to do mundane things.

   If you think your position is so high that you cannot pick up trash,
   help clean up, or serve others, that is definitely pride.

   Do not let entitlement make you feel like you are more important than
   anyone else. Great people are not afraid to serve those who are less
   fortunate than them.
   How to Get Rid of Pride in Your Heart How to Get Rid of Pride in Your
   Heart Photo by Free-Photos

11. You are critical to those who do better than you.

   One symptom of pride that you should watch out for is being critical
   towards others, especially those you are insecure with. Pointing out
   their flaws makes you feel better about yourself and better than them.

   Bitterness is the result of pride stepped on. Whenever you feel
   resentment towards someone who did better than you, keep yourself from
   thinking or saying bad comments about the person. Instead, give
   appreciation and be happy for him/her.

How to Control Pride and Overcome Arrogance

   1. Identify the cause of your pride

   2. Analyze and compare your pride in the reality

   3. Seek feedback

--

   12. Flee temptation

   For the details, please visit: How to Control Pride and Overcome
   Arrogance

20 Ways to Get Rid of Pride Become a Humble Person

   1. Do not compare yourself with anyone else.

--

   20. Always thank those who help or serve you, even in small things.

   Please visit How to Get Rid of Pride for the details.

Healthy Pride is Good

   Not all pride is bad. It can be good.

   Good pride is a healthy, positive attitude towards ourselves and our
   lives. It does not mean thinking we are better than others or that we
   should be treated differently.

1. Self-confidence is a good pride

   We should be confident, not arrogant. Confident people are realistic.
   They know what they can do well and try to do it often, but they also
   recognize what they cannot do and try to avoid those things.

2. Self-respect is a healthy pride

   This is the most important aspect of healthy pride. We should respect
   ourselves by respecting others. Treating others well helps us feel
   better about ourselves, while ignoring or mistreating others makes us
   feel worse.
--
   have bad habits or skills that we can improve. Self-esteem includes
   recognizing both of these sides to ourselves.

   Healthy pride comes from within: we should be proud of what we
   accomplish without feeling that we deserve special treatment. Healthy
   pride comes from God: when he made us in his image, he gave us value
   and worth; he expects nothing less than excellence from us as well!

5. Optimism
--
   Achieving goals helps us feel more positive about ourselves and feel
   motivated to set new goals because of this success.

6. Those with healthy pride lead, motivate, and inspire others.

   They do not use their success as a way to put others down. On the
   contrary, they want the good of everyone to be achieved and are willing
--

7. Being able to take care of yourself.

   Healthy pride means taking care of yourself and being grateful for the
   opportunities you have been given in life. For instance: being thankful
   for your family, education, job, etc. Having healthy pride means that
   you do not need to compare yourself with others – you are enough on
   your own!

   People with healthy pride can see their own flaws and weaknesses. They
   also have the ability to assess the value of others even more than
   themselves because they have a more realistic view of life.

--
   than just surviving or getting by on a day-to-day basis. In return, we
   may find happiness instead of sorrow when pursuing our ambitions!

What are the characteristics of an prideful person?

1) Being unthankful.

--

3) Being selfish.

   Prideful people think only of themselves and their own needs first, not
   about the needs of others around them who may be suffering. They often
   take advantage of others.

--

4) Being defensive.

   A prideful person doesn’t like to admit that he has faults or
   weaknesses. He is defensive when anyone points them out, so he does not
   improve himself and correct his mistakes. Instead, he often blames
   others for the things that are going wrong with him.
--

5) Refusing to forgive others.

   Prideful people think that any injustice against them must be punished
   severely to feel better about themselves and especially to inflict pain
   on those who hurt them (even if they were the only one who was hurt).

   They focus on their own rights and think they are entitled to get back
   what others have done, or even more.

   Prideful people aren’t willing to forgive others who offend them, no
   matter how repentant they are or how much it would be for the good of
   their relationships if they did so.

--

8) Jealous.

   Prideful people are envious of others and want to tear them down
   because those people have something good that proud people don’t get
   for themselves.

   When someone does something right, a prideful person thinks it is bad
   because it makes him look bad for not doing as well himself. So he gets
   upset at the success of others and tries to make them feel guilty for
   shaming him.

   Likewise, a prideful person feels bitter when someone gets a gift or
   good fortune that he did not receive. He is jealous of what others have
   or do and does not rejoice for them.

--

9) Bullying.

   Prideful people don’t like it when they feel small, so they will bully
   others into making themselves feel bigger. They are overbearing and
   tyrannical with those who don’t think or act as they do to maintain
   their ego.
--
   things can make a person feel superior and treat those who have less
   poorly to make himself feel better about himself.

Why is pride so sinful?

   There is nothing wrong with being proud of what you have achieved. For
   example, a good parent is proud of their child when they do well in
--
   your car, house, or job, and rightly so – they are all achievements
   that deserve to be praised.

   But pride can become a sin when it turns into arrogance.

   The Apostle Paul, who wrote most of the New Testament, was an
   incredible man. He helped change the world with his writing and
--
   this is a humble statement from someone who has done so much for God’s
   kingdom.

   Pride causes us to think that we are better than others or that what we
   do is more important than others. It makes us believe that our
   achievements are entirely our own doing rather than recognizing the
   hand of God along the way. Pride stops us from thanking Him for His
   grace.

   When we are proud of our achievements, it becomes difficult to accept
   criticism or negative feedback because we don’t think we need any help.

   Pride stops us from serving others. When someone is arrogant, they
   think they are better than everyone else – so why serve others? They
   will look down on you for doing menial tasks, whereas if you were
   humble, you would serve others and do menial tasks out of obedience.

   Pride can indeed be a sin when we are proud of our achievements, but it
   can also be a sin when we are proud about who we are rather than what
   we do.

   It’s okay to say ‘I am good at mathematics’ or ‘I am an amazing
   singer,’ but if this becomes more important to us than saying, ‘Jesus
   sacrificed His life for me, and I have come to love Him deeply,’ then
   pride has set in.

   Pride stops us from being thankful for the incredible grace that God
   has given us. When someone is arrogant, they think nothing of thanking
   Jesus for anything – because they consider themselves so great! But if
   you were truly humble, you would be thankful for every blessing that
   comes your way, whether it be something as small as a cup of water or
   something great like the life of Jesus.

What do the Bible verses say about pride?

     In his pride the wicked man does not seek him; in all his thoughts
     there is no room for God. (Psalm 10:4, NIV)


     All who fear the LORD will hate evil. Therefore, I hate pride and
     arrogance, corruption, and perverse speech. (Proverbs 8:13, NLT)


     Pride goes before destruction, a haughty spirit before a fall.
     Better to be lowly in spirit along with the oppressed than to share
     plunder with the proud. (Proverbs 16:18-19, NIV)


     In his pride the wicked man does not seek him; in all his thoughts
     there is no room for God. (Psalm 10:4, NIV)


     All who fear the LORD will hate evil. Therefore, I hate pride and
     arrogance, corruption and perverse speech. (Proverbs 8:13, NLT)


--
     (Romans 11:18-20, ESV)


     One’s pride will bring him low, but he who is lowly in spirit will
     obtain honor. (Proverbs 29:23, ESV)


     When pride comes, then comes disgrace, but with humility comes
     wisdom. (Proverbs 11:2, NIV)


--
     12:16, NLT)


     Where there is strife, there is pride, but wisdom is found in those
     who take advice. (Proverbs 13:10, NIV)


--

Evaluate Your Heart

   Many other things could give you a hint that pride is attacking you.
   The bottom line here is your motivation. If you do things out of
   selfish ambitions, then you are definitely prideful.

   To prevent pride from overcoming you, you must check your motives
   daily. It is important that you keep your feet on the ground, no matter
   how high you have reached already.

   God knows your heart, and if it is full of pride, He might teach you
   some lessons. Remember, the Bible says in Luke 14:11, “For all those
   who exalt themselves will be humbled, and those who humble themselves
   will be exalted.”
--

   ALSO READ:

     How to be a Humble Person: 20 Ways to Get Rid of Pride

   IFRAME:
   https://inspiringtips.com/how-to-be-a-humble-person-get-rid-of-pride/em
   bed/#?secret=vpIpX6KCI1

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/ag_gd_UrGYY?feature=oembed
--
   reading for leisure.

   Categories Personal Development Tags how to be humble, humility,
   personal development tips, pride, self-help

   Emily Fletcher’s The M Word: Why It Can Help You Handle Life Better
   10 Things to Know When Dating an Independent Woman
--
   November 25, 2021 3:52 am

   Thank you for truth. The Lord woke me up out of my sleep in regards to
   my behavior. I never knew I was operating in pride until the Lord
   showed me a reflection of myself . I had to repent and believe I will
   continue to do so in this area until Yah’s will be done in my life.

--
   Rakiya
   October 25, 2020 2:45 am

   My boy friend has all these qualities mentioned above. Yet he prides
   himself as being quiet, gentle and humble. Any time I point out his
   flaws becomes defensive and says that use my perception of him and it’s
   irrelevant. I’m really tired of his attitudes
--

   Sometimes a person can be proud of not being proud. hehehehe Many don’t
   realize they have it.
   There are several types of pride.
   And bad pride is sin. According to the Scriptures;” Pride goeth before
   destructions.. … Self-pity, self-condemnation self-exaltation, etc; ard
   members of being prideful.:)
   0
   Reply
   a grateful guy a grateful guy
--
   February 20, 2021 9:23 pm

   I see your point now but have not been able to see it this way in the
   past. Usually we only see or hear pride described as being too self
   absorbed, character traits that reflects too much like/love for self
   and whatever self wants , not the other way around. I never saw myself
   as prideful for feeling less than . I didn’t understand pride could
   mean not listening and or giving attention /time to other’s advice /
   suggestions. (proper/fair, which includes even when we do not agree
   with them or what they’re telling us. It might not be that other’s are
--
   hurts others – but not necessarily on purpose. I know now that I’m
   guilty of this kind of stuff but my behavior/actions/words like this
   come from outside influences / sins of other’s. Maybe we were raised
   differently than they (person we consider prideful) were so whats good
   behavior as far as we’re concerned and or proper Godly actions /choices
   may not be familiar or even “Godly ” or proper to them at all. Usually
   followers of Christ have The Holy Spirit to guide them, direct them,
--
   December 31, 2019 6:06 am

   This is a powerful reading and message to all for correction and
   identifications as known, pride wiggles into a person without knowing.
   0
   Reply
   Scott Scott
--
   October 20, 2020 8:03 am

   Thank you and God Bless you for telling me I have been letting the
   devil’s whispers of Self- Pride influence the last 14 years of my life.
   0
   Reply

