   ____________________
   Contentment Working Woman

Examples of Pride in the Bible

   by Godsplanguidedsteps
   No Comments
   Featured Image

   Examples of Pride in the Bible are plentiful. However, there are three
   general characteristics that are described in the Bible for these
   prideful and arrogant people. There is one person who stands out as an
   example of pride in the Bible. That is King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon.

General Examples of Pride in the Bible

1. The Prideful Tell Lies

   Those who are prideful will tell lies to make themselves look good.
   Anything to puff themselves up.
   proud, arrogant woman

   Now I don’t know if these prideful people start out with this intention
   or not. But we all have a sinful nature and when our eyes see it as
   good, then we continue on that path. And one lie begets another and
   another.

     For the sin of their mouths, the words of their lips, let them be
     trapped in their pride. For the cursing and lies that they utter,
     Psalm 59:12 ESV

   As we see from this verse, their words enslave them. A person who lies
--
   this world. And the father of lies, who is Satan himself (John 8:44
   ESV)

2. The Prideful Mock Others

   These people who are acting with arrogance have a name, according to
   Solomon. Their name is described by their actions.

     “Scoffer” is the name of the arrogant, haughty man who acts with
     arrogant pride.
     Proverbs 21:24 ESV

   They openly mock others because they believe their views are subpar to
--
   who faced rejection on a daily basis. He can identify with your
   cancellation.

3. The Prideful are Deceived

   While the prideful appear In this life to have it all, they really
   don’t. And are being deceived.

     The pride of your heart has deceived you, you who live in the clefts
     of the rock, in your lofty dwelling, who say in your heart, “Who
     will bring me down to the ground?”
     Obadiah 1:3: ESV

   Example of pride in the Bible Pride robs a person of peace and joy

   This deception comes from their heart. They devise a plan that is evil.
   They think that their plan will give them the satisfaction that they
--
     peace have joy.
     Proverbs 12:20 ESV

A Biblical Character Example of Pride: King Nebuchadnezzar

   In the story of Daniel, King Nebuchadnezzar sieged Babylon and took
   captives, including some youth. Daniel and his three friends, Shadrach,
--
   Babylon and his three friends were over the affairs of the province of
   Babylon.

Pride on Display

   So Nebuchadnezzar made a statue like the one in his dream and commanded
   everyone to bow down and worship this statue. If they did not, they
--

     Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the King of
     heaven, for all his works are right and his ways are just; and those
     who walk in pride he is able to humble.
     Daniel 4:37 ESV

   Once he repented and humbled himself before God, he was restored as the
--

A Personal Example

   When I was prideful in my previous job, God humbled me. My job was
   eliminated and I had the choice to take severance and leave or take a
   position in another department. I chose to stay and moved to the other
   department. While it was a humbling experience, God taught me that my
--
   I have been blessed even more in this position because I learned from
   that step of humility to give Him the glory in the work that I do.

   Are you walking in pride? Repent today, God is able to humble you as
   well.

   ******
--
Like this:

   Like Loading...
   Tags: contentment, pride, Working woman

Related Posts

