
Moved

Pride

Determination

--

Hope

Pride

   The feeling when you possess or have accomplished something that other
   people find praiseworthy. You feel vigorous and have the urge to show
   off to others.

   Pride is primarily about yourself, even when it is not you who did
   something that you are proud about. You can also be proud of something
   someone else did, who you associate with, such as your children or your
   favorite football team. People can feel proud of their culture, their
--
   of others are of crucial importance, as best demonstrated when you
   purposefully do something that other people praise.

   Pride is a social emotion, and to feel proud, you need other people’s
   (real or imagined) confirmation that you have a reason to feel that
   way. Because of this, other people can also ‘be in your head’ and
   prevent you from feeling pride. Namely, what is praiseworthy is
   subjective. Things that may be considered good in a certain (cultural)
   group may not be praiseworthy in another (e.g., if you grew up in a
   family that greatly values academics, your athletic abilities may not
--
   you). Thus, the more exclusive your quality is in your surroundings,
   the prouder you feel.

   Pride has recognizable features. Although its static facial expression
   (typically a smile or laugh) does not clearly distinguish it from other
   positive emotions, it typically results in a bodily posture, gestures,
   and behavior that are clearly recognizable: lifting your chin, looking
--
   more noticeable, as if to say: ‘look at me!’ You may also exhibit more
   perseverance in your activities^2.

   People generally find it very pleasant to experience pride, as it
   elevates our feeling of social self-worth and status^3. At the same
   time, many social groups, religions, and cultures (especially those
   that are highly collectivistic, such as the East Asian or African
   culture) believe that pride needs to be checked. Unchecked pride leads
   to arrogance and misplaced feelings of superiority (‘letting something
   get to your head’, ‘hubris comes before the fall’), and social groups
   typically do not tolerate members feeling like they are superior or
--

    1. Ben-Ze'ev, A. (2000). The subtlety of emotions (p.491). MIT press.
       [BOOK]
    2. Williams, L. A., & DeSteno, D. (2008). Pride and perseverance: The
       motivational role of pride. Journal of Personality and Social
       Psychology, 94(6), 1007–1017. [ARTICLE]
    3. van Osch, Y. M. J., Breugelmans, S. M., Zeelenberg, M., & Fontaine,
       J. J. R. (2013). The meaning of pride across cultures. In:
       Components of emotional meaning: A sourcebook. (pp.377-387). Oxford
       University Press. [BOOK]
    4. Wierzbicka, A. (1999). Emotions across languages and cultures:
