   #English Language Learners Stack Exchange Feed for question 'Do you say
   you feel pride 'for' something or you feel pride 'in' something?'

Stack Exchange Network

--
   and easy to search.
   Learn more about Teams

Do you say you feel pride 'for' something or you feel pride 'in' something?

   Ask Question
   Asked 7 years, 10 months ago
--
   2
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   Do you say you feel pride 'for' something or you feel pride 'in'
   something? 'For' feels right to me, but 'in' seems to make more sense.

   There are two statements where I need it. One is 'pride __ country' and
   the other is 'pride __ army'

   I want to talk about pride as a feeling; as a noun. For example
   "Nationalism is excessive pride of/in one's country'. I don't want to
   say "Nationalism is feeling excessively proud of one's country" or
   "Nationalism is taking excessive pride in one's country" as those
   unnecessarily complicate the sentence. Just to clarify, is the sentence
   "The parade instilled in them a pride in their country" wrong?
     * word-choice
     * prepositions

--
       – N A
       Feb 17, 2016 at 14:16
     * I don't have personal experience with it, but here says that you
       could say take pride in, while pride as a noun is just pride
       – drM.
       Feb 17, 2016 at 14:22
     * It would be helpful if you gave an example of the sentence you
       would like to use "feel pride for" in. If you mean to say "I feel
       pride" you might say "I am proud", like "I am proud of my skill".
       – ColleenV
       Feb 17, 2016 at 14:25
     * There are actually two sentences (Or rather, statements) where I
       need it. One is 'pride __ country' and the other is 'pride __
       army'.
       – N A
       Feb 17, 2016 at 14:28
--
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   Neither of OP's suggestions is "standard" English. You normally either
   take pride in something or you feel / are proud of [it, him, them,
   etc.].

   enter image description here
--
   But note that idiomatically there's a difference between...

     1: He is proud of his work
     2: He takes pride in his work

   ...where #1 means he feels his sense of self-worth is enhanced by the
   work that he has produced (because it's of a high quality; he expects
--
   69.4k44 gold badges8888 silver badges192192 bronze badges
   5
     * Those uses are both verbal (I don't know if that's the word, but I
       mean they describe an action) though. I want to talk about pride as
       a feeling; as a noun. For example "Nationalism is excessive pride
       of/in one's country'. I don't want to say "Nationalism is feeling
       excessively proud of one's country" or "Nationalism is taking
       excessive pride in one's country" as those unnecessarily complicate
       the sentence. Just to clarify, is the sentence "The parade
       instilled in them a pride in their country" wrong? @fumblefingers
       – N A
       Feb 17, 2016 at 14:45
     * @N A: I suppose you could define nationalism as "taking excessive
       pride in one's country", but personally I'd avoid any variant of
       pride/proud in that context, since it's normal for most Anglophones
       (particularly Americans) to strongly endorse patriotism
       (having/taking pride in one's country) whilst decrying nationalism
       (an extreme form of patriotism marked by a feeling of superiority
       over other countries.)
       – FumbleFingers
       Feb 17, 2016 at 14:53
     * I was just using that as an example. I made it up on the spot.
       Okay, so let's look at patriotism instead. Saying 'Patriotism is
       taking pride in one's country' implies that patriotism is something
       you do, doesn't it? Patriotism is not an action, but a feeling.
       @FumbleFingers
       – N A
       Feb 17, 2016 at 14:58
     * You're quite right. That's why I personally would always write The
       parade instilled in them a sense of pride in their country. But
       this isn't really about vocabulary or syntax as such - we're at the
       level of "writing advice" here.
       – FumbleFingers
       Feb 17, 2016 at 15:05
     * 'Sense of pride in' definitely sounds a lot better to me. I think
       that's what I was missing :) Thanks!
       – N A
       Feb 17, 2016 at 15:08
--

   I am proud of him - I feel proud because I helped him achieve something

   I have pride in him - I am proud that I am associatied with him

   I am proud for him - I feel empathetic pride because of his solo
   achievement

   You dont feel pride "for" something unless that thing is capable of
   feeling pride itself and you are emulating that feeling due to empathy.

   If you do something for "person", you are serving the persons benefit.
   If you do something for "object" you are attempting to obtain the
--
   2
   "Carry something in for you" or "carry something for you"
   0
   Pride oneself on something
   1
   Adjective for when skills are not improving and I'm depressed about it
   1
