     * AF Latino
     *

The Kings of Pride

   News and Features | Inside Report Archives
       | The Kings of Pride

   The Kings of Pride
   By Pastor Doug Batchelor
   An Amazing Fact: Joshua Abraham Norton suffered from delusions of
   grandeur. He preferred to be called His Imperial Majesty Norton I, and
--
   a tale about two scheming 19th century friends. The former soldiers set
   off from British India in search of adventure — and ended up as kings
   in what is now part of Afghanistan. It’s a fascinating study of how
   their rise to regal power slowly unleashes the latent pride in their
   hearts, changing their characters and dividing them as friends.
   Most of us have heard the expression “power corrupts, and absolute
   power corrupts absolutely.” This is especially true for monarchs, who
   are exposed to the temptations of pride more than the average person.
   The Bible is replete with examples of men who would be king, and kings
   who wanted to be divine. In fact, we learn that sin entered our
   universe through the portal of pride …
   The Angel Who Would Be God
   In Isaiah 14, we find a fascinating portrait of the first casualty of
   pride’s poison. It’s the story of how the devil became a devil.
   Of course, we know that God did not create the devil. Rather, He
   created a dazzlingly beautiful angel named Lucifer, who was the highest
   of the cherubim, the leader of the heavenly choir, and the most
--
   NKJV, emphasis added). Lucifer clearly had “I” problems.
   As the wayward angel spread his disaffection among the other angels,
   eventually God had to evict him from the courts of glory. But that
   wasn’t the end of pride in God’s creation. In fact, it was the first
   type of temptation that Lucifer, now better known as Satan, presented
   to Adam and Eve. He told them that if they would merely eat the
   forbidden fruit, their eyes would be opened and they would be like God,
   implanting in their hearts and minds his own arrogant desires. And it
   worked.
   Ultimately, pride is a form of idolatry — making ourselves an object of
   worship. The proud aspirations of the devil throughout the great
   controversy all revolve around “me, myself, and I.” And in Ezekiel 28,
   we find a few more details on the many facets of pride that led to
   Lucifer’s fall — pride of power, position, possession, intelligence,
   appearance, and more. The chapter should be a wake-up call to
   Christians in the final era of human history, because these selfish
   characteristics still contribute to the fall of those who eventually
   grieve away the Spirit of the Lord. Indeed, pride is the invisible
   dragnet with which the devil captures the most confident of God’s
   people.

--
   heart to Jesus.
   Request your free copy of The Surrender of Self

   The Pride of Power

   “Thou wast upon the holy mountain of God; thou hast walked up and down
   in the midst of the stones of fire” (Ezekiel 28:14). The Bible spends a
   lot of time on kings who were overcome with pride in their own power,
   which gives the one who wields it incredible attention and adoration,
   feeding selfishness to no end.

   Nebuchadnezzar struggled with this particular pride problem. At the
   zenith of his power, the great Babylonian king had a dream about a tree
   from which the whole world was fed and where every bird found a place
   to roost in its branches. Later he watches the tree being cut down, and
--

   Sounds like the devil, doesn’t it? He took irresponsible credit for
   everything over which he was given reign. God took this precise moment
   in time to send a striking judgment on the prideful king. “While the
   word was in the king’s mouth, there fell a voice from heaven, saying, O
   king Nebuchadnezzar, to thee it is spoken; The kingdom is departed from
   thee” (v. 31).
--
   the one who deserves our praise, no matter how much power we possess in
   this world. When God gives us the ability to influence others, we
   shouldn’t treat it as if we did it all on our own. We should use that
   power with deep humility. Because of his pride, Nebuchadnezzar lost
   everything. Pride can also bring Christians to a place where we lose
   our access to the kingdom of God, just as it did with the devil.

   Pride in Position

   “Thou art the anointed cherub that covereth; and I have set thee so”
   (Ezekiel 28:14). Some people grow proud of their position at work and
   in life. It is part of the same myriad of issues the devil struggled
   with before he had to be cast out of heaven. Haman in the book of
   Esther provides another prime example of self-destructive pride on
   display in the Bible.

   The mighty Xerxes of Persia learned that a Jew named Mordecai had saved
--
   king, had become angry with Mordecai because the devout Jew would not
   bow before the haughty noble. Haman became so angry, in fact, that he
   wanted to kill all the Jews in the land.
   As Haman’s inflated pride continued to fester, he bragged to his
   friends “of the glory of his riches, and the multitude of his children,
   and all the things wherein the king had promoted him, and how he had
   advanced him above the princes and servants of the king” (Esther 5:11).
--
   because of his own high royal standing. Yet before he could ask the
   king for permission, Xerxes asks Haman, “What should be done for the
   man the king delights to honor?”
   Pride, a distorted mirror that obstructs clear thinking and reason,
   allowed Haman to see only himself. Filled with conceit, “Haman thought
   in his heart, ‘Whom would the king delight to honor more than me?’ ”
   (Esther 6:6 NKJV). The noble quickly devised the most extravagant
--
   Well, can you imagine Haman’s shock with what followed: “The king said
   to Haman, Make haste … as thou hast said, and do even so to Mordecai
   the Jew. … Let nothing fail of all that thou hast spoken” (v. 10).
   Haman was commanded to honor the man his pride so desperately wanted to
   murder.
   The Bible says, “When pride cometh, then cometh shame” (Proverbs 11:2).
   The story of Haman is a great example of the ultimate payout of pride.
   He was hung on the gallows he had built for Mordecai.
   This pride of position even infected those closest to Jesus. In Mark 9,
   we find the disciples arguing about which one of them will be greatest
   in Jesus’ kingdom. It was as if they had never heard one of Jesus’ most
   powerful lessons to them: “He who is greatest among you shall be your
--
   you’ve been passed over at your job because of favoritism rather than
   skill? Don’t let it bother you. Be content to serve where God has put
   you. Christ in His time will lift you up.
   Spiritual Pride
   Spiritual pride is a hidden pit in which many unsuspecting Christians
   have fallen. It is especially insidious because it masquerades as
   virtue. The Old Testament King Uzziah was generally a good ruler, but
   he fell through religious pride. He thought he deserved the same
   privileges as the priests. King Saul also lost his kingdom after
   usurping the responsibilities of the priesthood.
   Jesus addressed this fatal flaw in one of His most familiar parables.
--
   before God. But the publican had simple trust in God’s mercy. The
   publican is forgiven, but the Pharisee isn’t. We can’t miss that lesson
   if we want to grow in Christ.
   Spiritual pride is deadly — and it is the bane of the Laodicean church.
   When a person or church says, “I am rich and increased with goods,”
   that’s nothing more than selfish spiritual pride. And God has something
   to say about that. He says that we’re really “poor and wretched and
   blind and naked and don’t know it.” The more spiritually proud you
   become, the more spiritually poor you are. But those who recognize and
--
   In the classic Christ’s Object Lessons, by Ellen White, we learn “The
   evil that led to Peter’s fall and that shut out the Pharisee from
   communion with God is proving the ruin of thousands today. There is
   nothing so offensive to God or so dangerous to the human soul as pride
   and self-sufficiency. Of all sins it is the most hopeless, the most
   incurable” (p. 154).
   That’s why Jesus said, “Beware of the scribes, which love to go in long
--
   in the synagogues, and the uppermost rooms at feasts: Which devour
   widows’ houses, and for a pretence make long prayers” (Mark 12:38 –
   40). These men, says Jesus, will receive even greater condemnation
   because of their unchecked pride.
   Are you encumbered with spiritual pride? Are you proud of your
   knowledge of Bible doctrines? Do you go to church mocking those who
   don’t go the same day as you? Be warned of the spirit of your heart and
   the reasons why you do religious things. Pride is the seed that Satan
   planted to get Jesus nailed to the cross. In Mark 15, we’re told,
   “Pilate answered them [the Jewish leadership], saying, ‘Do you want me
   to release to you the King of the Jews?’ For he knew that the chief
   priests had handed Him over because of envy” (vs. 9, 10 NKJV). It
   offended their pride that Jesus threatened their prominence among the
   people, so they killed Him.
   The Power of Humility
   We’ve examined the destructive power of pride in the life of great
   kings and God’s people. Let’s conclude this study with a little lesson
   on the restorative power of choosing humility.
   The Bible tells us over and over that God wants humble hearts in His
   people. It teaches, “He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what
   doth the LORD require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and
   to walk humbly with thy God?” (Micah 6:8, emphasis added).
   Pride is a compass needle that always points to self. But we can choose
   to resist that natural tendency. Through God’s Spirit, we can choose to
   be humble. The Bible doesn’t say we should ask God to humble us;
   instead, we are repeatedly invited to humble ourselves (2 Chronicles
--
   realize our true status if God is going to transform us from a worm to
   a butterfly.
   Be Like Christ
   The contrasting examples of Pharaoh’s pride and Moses’ meekness are a
   symbol of Lucifer and Jesus. And each one of us must choose to imitate
   the traits of one or the other. So here is a final unfailing principle
   you should know: God most exalts those who are most humble and humbles
