
   New Jersey Devils

Devils find loophole for players to wear Pride-themed jerseys

NHL barred players from wearing any themed jerseys on ice

--
   such sweaters off the ice.

   The Devils are holding a "Hockey is for Everyone" Night – essentially a
   Pride Night – on Thursday against the Edmonton Oilers.

   CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM
   Nico Hischier and Akira Schmid

   Nico Hischier and Akira Achmid wear New Jersey Devils Pride jerseys.

   The organization had a local designer, Kathryn Kennedy, design
   Pride-themed sweaters, and members of the team entered Prudential
   Center wearing them.

   "Coming out is certainly something that’s not always easy, and it can
   take a while for someone to feel comfortable enough to do it," Kennedy
   said. "I can only hope that this design, and Pride Night, helps someone
   else feel respected, even, and welcome.

   "These theme nights let people who are apart of their respective
   communities know that they’re seen, heard, and welcome, that this is
   something for them. It’s a huge honor to be involved in the Devils'
   Pride Night, and my hope is that I’ve created something that helps
   others feel accepted and appreciated."

   Coordinating with the league's policy, the uniforms were not worn on
   the ice during warm-ups. The Devils say they will be auctioned off.
   devils pride jersey

   A New Jersey Devils Pride jersey

   While the jerseys were not worn on the ice, members of both teams,
   including the best player on earth in Connor McDavid, put Pride tape on
   his stick during warm-ups. The league originally banned Pride tape when
   the new jersey regulations were put in place, but after players defied
   it, that ban was reversed.

--

   NHL LEGEND JAROMIR JAGR, 51, BEGINS 36TH SEASON OF PROFESSIONAL HOCKEY

   The Arizona Coyotes were the first team to hold a Pride night this
   season, with members of the team, similar to the Devils, entering their
   arena with such jerseys.

   Earlier this season, goalie Marc-Andre Fleury was threatened with
   punishment if he wore a Native American-themed mask to honor his wife's
   background. He did so anyway.
   Pride stick

   A view of the stick of Washington Capitals right wing Tom Wilson
   displaying rainbow stick tape as part of Pride Night during warm-ups
   before the Capitals' game against the Boston Bruins at Capital One
   Arena. (Geoff Burke-USA TODAY Sports)

   CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP

   The issue was brought to light last season when Philadelphia Flyers'
   Ivan Provorov opted not to wear the team's Pride-themed jersey during
   warm-ups, citing his religion. Other players and teams followed suit
   for various reasons, ultimately leading NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman
   to nix all themed jerseys to "keep the focus on the game."
