
   Everyday Power > Inspirational Quotes

120 Ego Quotes Examining Pride, Confidence and Purpose

   Norbert Juma
   By Norbert Juma | Updated November 14, 2023
--
   the beginner’s mindset, focusing on doing your best, and choosing
   purpose over passion.

   Instead of letting early pride lead you astray, remind yourself how
   much work is left to be done, not how much you have done.

   It’s okay to take pride in achievements or position but remember that
   nobody gets to the top alone.

   To help you stay balanced, below is our collection of inspirational,
--
   See the rest of our quote database for even more inspirational ideas
   and thoughts.

Ego quotes examining pride, confidence and purpose

   According to a study published in the Journal of Personality and Social
   Psychology, individuals with high narcissism and self-centeredness may
--

   5. “The ego is the false self-born out of fear and defensiveness.” ―
   John O’Donohue
   Ego quotes examining pride, confidence and purpose

   You will also enjoy our article on be listening quotes.

--
   come to a true acceptance and appreciation of yourself.” ― Rasheed
   Ogunlaru

   29. “Why do you give way to your ego and pride. Where does it stand in
   the ocean of time.” ― Naveen Rajeev
   Ego Quotes About Pride

   30. “The Spirit is as much a jealous lover as the ego. Both guard their
   path with an uncompromising passion but for very different reasons.” ―
--
   46. “The ego hurts you like this: you become obsessed with the one
   person who does not love you. blind to the rest who do.” ― Warsan Shire

   47. “Don’t allow the pride, ego, and insecurities of others stunt your
   growth.” ― Yvonne Pierre
   Ego Quotes About Growth

--

   74. “Be capable of negating your ego.” — Robert Greene

   75. “Receive without pride, let go without attachment.” — Marcus
   Aurelius

   76. “Drop ego and listen. Empathize.” — Naval Ravikant

   77. “Pride must die in you, or nothing of heaven can live in you.” —
   Andrew Murray

   78. “Ego is about who’s right. Truth is about what’s right.” — Mike
--
   90. “Most arguments are not really disagreements but are rather little
   ego battles and misunderstandings.” ― Stephen Covey

Ego Quotes To Swallow Your Pride

   91. “Ego is just like a dust in the eyes… without clearing the dust you
   can’t see anything clearly… so clear the ego and see the world.” ― Sukh
