
   Share

   Pride Won’t Let You Learn

The way pride is ingrained in those who exhibit this sheer arrogance is that
it’s convoluted with a hint of ignorance and a dash of recklessness. In a
less complicated sentence, proud people are ignorant of the consequences of
their speech or actions.
--
   stop spending time preparing and improving because we’re sure that we
   know.

   Pride comes as a result of knowledge and confidence. You know what you
   know and no one can take away that knowledge. That knowledge boosts
   your confidence level and you’re ready to take on the world but pride
   wants you to take a piss on the world regardless of the beauty other
   people are trying to create on its canvas.

   For you to learn a thing, you’d have to come to terms with the fact
   that you haven’t experienced it. You might have heard and read about
   it, but you haven’t had a real-time meet with it and pride won’t let
   you think this.

     Pride confuses ignorance as just a lack of knowledge issue. But real
     intelligence knows ignorance is also inadequate information or
     knowledge. Ignorance is knowledge that isn’t yielding appropriate
     results.

   If there’s anything you know about, have read about or are studying
   that isn’t generating your envisioned consequence, there’s an ignorance
   gap and pride might not let you accept this sheer and cold truth.

   So, you keep feeding yourself with more updates and latest information
   thinking that staying in touch would somehow create that learning
--
   one-sided versions of their lives. And because we live in a connected
   world, people can’t mind their businesses.

Don’t let pride shut the door against the life you really want. Call for
help, heck! Scream for it. Get on your knees, put on your dungarees, get your
hands dirty and get to work. Call up someone to teach you if you can. Pay for
that workshop to learn that skill that you know is relevant for where you’re
--
Speak to someone about the challenges you’re facing.

   In the words of Maria Forleo, everything is figureoutable, but the
   caveat is for only those who are willing to set pride aside and learn.

   Pride can only get you as far as it can but not as far as you want.
   You’re struggling because there’s something or a bunch of stuff you’re
   yet to learn and that’s okay.

