   Skip Main Navigation
   logo
     * About Us
          + About Pastor Doug

About Pastor Doug
               o Bio
               o Speaking Schedule
               o Ministry Newsletter
               o Books written by Pastor Doug
               o Pastor Doug's Facebook Page
            About Amazing Facts

About Amazing Facts
               o History of Amazing Facts
               o Belief Statement
               o Mission Statement
               o Employment Opportunities
               o Why I Give
            Contact Us

Contact Us
                6615 Sierra College Blvd, Granite Bay, CA, 95746
                    (916) 434-3880
               o Email Us
               o Share Your Testimony
               o Share a Prayer Request
               o Ask a Bible Question
     * News & Features
          +

Articles

News
            The source for everything happening at Amazing Facts.

AF Blog
            Understanding the latest news through a biblical lens.

Changed Lives
            Heart-touching stories of lives impacted by the ministry.

Pastor Doug's Newsletter
            Special insight and inspiration straight from the president’s
            desk.

Inside Report Magazine
            Amazing Facts’ quarterly guide featuring news, articles, Bible
            answers, and more.

Events

Prophecy Seminars
            Understand Bible prophecy and more at these local events in
            your area.

Evangelism Training
            Featuring courses and local seminars on how to be a better
            witness in your community.

Pastor Doug Speaking
            The latest information on all of Pastor Doug’s upcoming
            events.

Live Church Events
            Join Pastor Doug’s church for special music, inspiring
            sermons, and empowering church training.

Resources

AF i-Tools
            Spread the Word using these free digital resources from the
            ministry, including plug-ins, banners, and more.

Our Other Websites
            Fast access to all of Amazing Facts’ English and
            foreign-language Bible-based websites.
     * Bible Study
          + Daily Devotional

Get Daily Bread

Daily Devotional
            Sign up for your daily dose of spiritual insight and
            encouragement from Amazing Facts.

Verse of the Day
            An inspiring passage from Scripture delivered to your inbox
            every day!

Bible Reading Plan
            A guide for walking through all of Scripture in just a
            year—with catch-up days built in.
            Free Book Library

Deepen Your Walk
               o Get To Know Jesus
               o God's Promises
               o Scripture Picture Gallery
               o Scripture Pictures by Books of the Bible
               o Are You Grieving?
               o Are Your Burdens Heavy?
               o Are You Lonely?
               o Are You Struggling With Guilt?
            Bible Study Guides

Study Tools

Free Online Bible School
            The world-renowned Amazing Facts Bible school will help you
            know God’s Word better than ever.
            Enroll in Online Course
            Enroll in Correspondence Course

Bible Study Guides
            All 27 lessons of our popular Bible lesson series available at
            the click of your mouse.

Free Book Library
            Access dozens of Amazing Facts topical Scripture books from
            Pastor Doug and others.
     * Media Library
          +

Watch

   AFTV
            Amazing Facts 24/7 television station featuring the best in
            Bible study streamed lived and on-demand.

Sabbath School Study Hour
            Helping you get the most out of your Sabbath School quarterly
            every week.

Amazing Facts with Doug Batchelor
            Our flagship program features the most informative and
            inspiring messages from Pastor Doug and more.

Pastor Doug's Weekly Message
            Worship with Pastor Doug’s church each week, featuring
            beautiful music and life-changing Bible study.

Listen

   Amazing Facts Radio
            Listen to all of Amazing Facts audio programming whenever and
            wherever you go.
            Download AF Radio App for iPhone or Android

Bible Answers Live
            Pastor Doug’s worldwide radio program will help you find
            answers to your biggest Bible questions.

Podcasts & RSS Feeds
            On-demand Amazing Facts audio featuring a wealth of spiritual
            guidance and inspiration.
            Get the Amazing Facts App!

More Options

   All Archived Programs
            Access to our entire media library in one easy-to-use and
            easy-to-search location.
               o AFTV Program Schedule
               o Ways to Watch
               o Free Offers
               o Station Locator
               o Broadcast In Your Area!
               o Programs by Scripture
               o Programs by Topic
               o Programs by Language
     * Donate
          + Ministry Newsletter

Ways to Give
               o  Donate Now! - Our Greatest Need
               o Latest Opportunities
               o Donate By Project
               o Donate Monthly

                             Champions of Truth!
            Changed Lives Testimony

Gift Impact

Changed Lives (Videos)
            See how your gifts changed another life.

Seasons of Opportunity (Videos)
            In every time and season, there is an opportunity to share
            hope in Christ.

Partners in Evangelism
            See how your gifts made a lasting difference recently.

Your Annual Impact
            Learn how your faithful giving helped thousands know Christ
            this last year.
            Planned Giving

Partnership Choices
               o Give Through a Will or Trust
               o Charitable Gift Annuities
               o Give Stocks and Bonds
               o Give Real Estate
               o Give a Vehicle

           Subscribe to receive Pastor Doug's monthly newsletter!
     * Store
          +

Visit AFBookstore.com

Pastor Doug's Books
            Discover all the informative and inspiring books from the
            speaker and president of Amazing Facts.

Sharing Materials
            Witness to friends and family with these powerhouse resources
            on a wide variety of biblical topics.

Kids Products
            Products that will appeal to the young and young at heart.

Devotionals
            Strengthen your walk with Christ with these life-changing
            devotionals from your friends at Amazing Facts.

Bibles
            Dig into the Word and become a Bible expert with Amazing Facts
            line of study Bibles and more.

Clearance Items
            These deals on incredible witnessing and Bible resources don’t
            last long! Get yours before supplies run out.
     * Special Events
     * AF Latino
     *

The Kings of Pride

   News and Features | Inside Report Archives
       | The Kings of Pride

   The Kings of Pride
   By Pastor Doug Batchelor
   An Amazing Fact: Joshua Abraham Norton suffered from delusions of
   grandeur. He preferred to be called His Imperial Majesty Norton I, and
   in 1859, he proclaimed himself Emperor of the United States. Of course,
   people were amused by the grand claims of this pauper, but while he was
   generally considered a little insane, he ate for free at San
   Francisco’s best restaurants and the city’s newspapers published many
   of his proclamations — including an order to dissolve the U.S. Congress
   by force and the construction of a bridge across San Francisco Bay. His
   humor and deeds were celebrated not only in the city, but around the
   world. More than 30,000 people turned up for his memorial after his
   death in 1880.
   Rudyard Kipling wrote the clever short story The Man Who Would Be King,
   a tale about two scheming 19th century friends. The former soldiers set
   off from British India in search of adventure — and ended up as kings
   in what is now part of Afghanistan. It’s a fascinating study of how
   their rise to regal power slowly unleashes the latent pride in their
   hearts, changing their characters and dividing them as friends.
   Most of us have heard the expression “power corrupts, and absolute
   power corrupts absolutely.” This is especially true for monarchs, who
   are exposed to the temptations of pride more than the average person.
   The Bible is replete with examples of men who would be king, and kings
   who wanted to be divine. In fact, we learn that sin entered our
   universe through the portal of pride …
   The Angel Who Would Be God
   In Isaiah 14, we find a fascinating portrait of the first casualty of
   pride’s poison. It’s the story of how the devil became a devil.
   Of course, we know that God did not create the devil. Rather, He
   created a dazzlingly beautiful angel named Lucifer, who was the highest
   of the cherubim, the leader of the heavenly choir, and the most
   intelligent and powerful of all the created beings.
   But all of God’s creatures are free to choose whom they will love and
   serve. Sadly, Lucifer made the toxic decision to choose himself over
   all others. He became hyper-narcissistic, enchanted by his own beauty.
   “How you are fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! … For
   you have said in your heart: ‘I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt
   my throne above the stars of God; I will also sit on the mount of the
   congregation On the farthest sides of the north; I will ascend above
   the heights of the clouds, I will be like the Most High’ ” (vs. 12, 13,
   NKJV, emphasis added). Lucifer clearly had “I” problems.
   As the wayward angel spread his disaffection among the other angels,
   eventually God had to evict him from the courts of glory. But that
   wasn’t the end of pride in God’s creation. In fact, it was the first
   type of temptation that Lucifer, now better known as Satan, presented
   to Adam and Eve. He told them that if they would merely eat the
   forbidden fruit, their eyes would be opened and they would be like God,
   implanting in their hearts and minds his own arrogant desires. And it
   worked.
   Ultimately, pride is a form of idolatry — making ourselves an object of
   worship. The proud aspirations of the devil throughout the great
   controversy all revolve around “me, myself, and I.” And in Ezekiel 28,
   we find a few more details on the many facets of pride that led to
   Lucifer’s fall — pride of power, position, possession, intelligence,
   appearance, and more. The chapter should be a wake-up call to
   Christians in the final era of human history, because these selfish
   characteristics still contribute to the fall of those who eventually
   grieve away the Spirit of the Lord. Indeed, pride is the invisible
   dragnet with which the devil captures the most confident of God’s
   people.

   Click below to request your free downloadable copy of The Surrender of
   Self and learn how to conquer our selfish natures and give our whole
   heart to Jesus.
   Request your free copy of The Surrender of Self

   The Pride of Power

   “Thou wast upon the holy mountain of God; thou hast walked up and down
   in the midst of the stones of fire” (Ezekiel 28:14). The Bible spends a
   lot of time on kings who were overcome with pride in their own power,
   which gives the one who wields it incredible attention and adoration,
   feeding selfishness to no end.

   Nebuchadnezzar struggled with this particular pride problem. At the
   zenith of his power, the great Babylonian king had a dream about a tree
   from which the whole world was fed and where every bird found a place
   to roost in its branches. Later he watches the tree being cut down, and
   the worried king seeks an interpretation. The prophet Daniel informs
   Nebuchadnezzar that the monarch is the tree who will be cut down.
   Daniel advises him to turn from his sinful ways, live righteously, and
   show mercy on the poor.

   Convicted by the prophet, Nebuchadnezzar manages to humble himself —
   for a while. As Babylon continued to grow in prosperity, as his armies
   continued to win battles, as all his building projects came to
   fruition, one day the king walked out onto one his palatial balconies
   to take in the glorious vista of his kingdom. He proclaimed, “Is not
   this great Babylon, that I have built for the house of the kingdom by
   the might of my power, and for the honour of my majesty?” (Daniel
   4:30).

   Sounds like the devil, doesn’t it? He took irresponsible credit for
   everything over which he was given reign. God took this precise moment
   in time to send a striking judgment on the prideful king. “While the
   word was in the king’s mouth, there fell a voice from heaven, saying, O
   king Nebuchadnezzar, to thee it is spoken; The kingdom is departed from
   thee” (v. 31).

   What follows is quite amazing. For seven years, God took away the
   king’s wisdom, intelligence, and power. Nebuchadnezzar became like a
   brute animal, going around on his hands and knees. His advisers didn’t
   know what to do with him. Fearing this might destabilize the kingdom,
   they refused to declare the situation to the kingdom’s citizens and
   released him to pasture in the royal gardens where he went around
   eating grass like an ox.

   After seven years, God had mercy and restored Nebuchadnezzar’s wits.
   But the lesson is as clear as the story of the devil in Ezekiel: God is
   the one who deserves our praise, no matter how much power we possess in
   this world. When God gives us the ability to influence others, we
   shouldn’t treat it as if we did it all on our own. We should use that
   power with deep humility. Because of his pride, Nebuchadnezzar lost
   everything. Pride can also bring Christians to a place where we lose
   our access to the kingdom of God, just as it did with the devil.

   Pride in Position

   “Thou art the anointed cherub that covereth; and I have set thee so”
   (Ezekiel 28:14). Some people grow proud of their position at work and
   in life. It is part of the same myriad of issues the devil struggled
   with before he had to be cast out of heaven. Haman in the book of
   Esther provides another prime example of self-destructive pride on
   display in the Bible.

   The mighty Xerxes of Persia learned that a Jew named Mordecai had saved
   his life from an assassination plot. Xerxes wanted to honor Mordecai,
   but Haman, who had recently received a promotion of high honor from the
   king, had become angry with Mordecai because the devout Jew would not
   bow before the haughty noble. Haman became so angry, in fact, that he
   wanted to kill all the Jews in the land.
   As Haman’s inflated pride continued to fester, he bragged to his
   friends “of the glory of his riches, and the multitude of his children,
   and all the things wherein the king had promoted him, and how he had
   advanced him above the princes and servants of the king” (Esther 5:11).
   So when Mordecai continued to refuse to show Haman reverence, the noble
   flipped his lid. He presumptuously decided to build a gallows from
   which to hang Mordecai, certain that Xerxes would give him permission
   because of his own high royal standing. Yet before he could ask the
   king for permission, Xerxes asks Haman, “What should be done for the
   man the king delights to honor?”
   Pride, a distorted mirror that obstructs clear thinking and reason,
   allowed Haman to see only himself. Filled with conceit, “Haman thought
   in his heart, ‘Whom would the king delight to honor more than me?’ ”
   (Esther 6:6 NKJV). The noble quickly devised the most extravagant
   procession he could think of for himself — riding on the king’s horse,
   in the king’s robes, with the king’s crown upon his head, parading up
   and down the city streets for all to honor. Jesus said, “Out of the
   abundance of the heart the mouth speaks,” and this couldn’t be truer
   for Haman, who speaks as if he wanted desperately to be the king.
   Well, can you imagine Haman’s shock with what followed: “The king said
   to Haman, Make haste … as thou hast said, and do even so to Mordecai
   the Jew. … Let nothing fail of all that thou hast spoken” (v. 10).
   Haman was commanded to honor the man his pride so desperately wanted to
   murder.
   The Bible says, “When pride cometh, then cometh shame” (Proverbs 11:2).
   The story of Haman is a great example of the ultimate payout of pride.
   He was hung on the gallows he had built for Mordecai.
   This pride of position even infected those closest to Jesus. In Mark 9,
   we find the disciples arguing about which one of them will be greatest
   in Jesus’ kingdom. It was as if they had never heard one of Jesus’ most
   powerful lessons to them: “He who is greatest among you shall be your
   servant. And who ever exalts himself will be humbled, and he who
   humbles himself will be exalted” (Matthew 23:11, 12 NKJV).
   If you exalt yourself, striving for position and honor, you will be
   humbled by God. If you humble yourself, God will find a way to exalt
   you, in this life or the one to come in eternity. Do you feel as though
   you’ve been passed over at your job because of favoritism rather than
   skill? Don’t let it bother you. Be content to serve where God has put
   you. Christ in His time will lift you up.
   Spiritual Pride
   Spiritual pride is a hidden pit in which many unsuspecting Christians
   have fallen. It is especially insidious because it masquerades as
   virtue. The Old Testament King Uzziah was generally a good ruler, but
   he fell through religious pride. He thought he deserved the same
   privileges as the priests. King Saul also lost his kingdom after
   usurping the responsibilities of the priesthood.
   Jesus addressed this fatal flaw in one of His most familiar parables.
   “Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the
   other a publican” (Luke 18:10). Here Jesus contrasts two people who
   belong to the same church. In Jesus’ time, the Pharisees were deeply
   respected for their religiousness, while the publicans were regarded as
   outcasts.
   In the parable, the “Pharisee stood and prayed thus … God, I thank
   thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers,
   or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of
   all that I possess,” while the “publican, standing afar off, would not
   lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast,
   saying, God be merciful to me a sinner” (Luke 18:11–13).
   According to Jesus, it was the humble publican who went home justified
   (Luke 18:14). You see, the Pharisee was proud of his good works,
   believing that his spiritual deeds earned him standing and acceptance
   before God. But the publican had simple trust in God’s mercy. The
   publican is forgiven, but the Pharisee isn’t. We can’t miss that lesson
   if we want to grow in Christ.
   Spiritual pride is deadly — and it is the bane of the Laodicean church.
   When a person or church says, “I am rich and increased with goods,”
   that’s nothing more than selfish spiritual pride. And God has something
   to say about that. He says that we’re really “poor and wretched and
   blind and naked and don’t know it.” The more spiritually proud you
   become, the more spiritually poor you are. But those who recognize and
   admit their sorry spiritual state in life, who know they can be saved
   only by the grace of Christ, have an advantage in their humility. Jesus
   promises them, “Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the
   kingdom of heaven.”
   In the classic Christ’s Object Lessons, by Ellen White, we learn “The
   evil that led to Peter’s fall and that shut out the Pharisee from
   communion with God is proving the ruin of thousands today. There is
   nothing so offensive to God or so dangerous to the human soul as pride
   and self-sufficiency. Of all sins it is the most hopeless, the most
   incurable” (p. 154).
   That’s why Jesus said, “Beware of the scribes, which love to go in long
   clothing, and love salutations in the marketplaces, And the chief seats
   in the synagogues, and the uppermost rooms at feasts: Which devour
   widows’ houses, and for a pretence make long prayers” (Mark 12:38 –
   40). These men, says Jesus, will receive even greater condemnation
   because of their unchecked pride.
   Are you encumbered with spiritual pride? Are you proud of your
   knowledge of Bible doctrines? Do you go to church mocking those who
   don’t go the same day as you? Be warned of the spirit of your heart and
   the reasons why you do religious things. Pride is the seed that Satan
   planted to get Jesus nailed to the cross. In Mark 15, we’re told,
   “Pilate answered them [the Jewish leadership], saying, ‘Do you want me
   to release to you the King of the Jews?’ For he knew that the chief
   priests had handed Him over because of envy” (vs. 9, 10 NKJV). It
   offended their pride that Jesus threatened their prominence among the
   people, so they killed Him.
   The Power of Humility
   We’ve examined the destructive power of pride in the life of great
   kings and God’s people. Let’s conclude this study with a little lesson
   on the restorative power of choosing humility.
   The Bible tells us over and over that God wants humble hearts in His
   people. It teaches, “He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what
   doth the LORD require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and
   to walk humbly with thy God?” (Micah 6:8, emphasis added).
   Pride is a compass needle that always points to self. But we can choose
   to resist that natural tendency. Through God’s Spirit, we can choose to
   be humble. The Bible doesn’t say we should ask God to humble us;
   instead, we are repeatedly invited to humble ourselves (2 Chronicles
   7:14). God can certainly find ways of bringing you back down to earth,
   and He will because He loves you. But that doesn’t mean you will humble
   yourself: Plague after plague fell upon Pharaoh and his people, but the
   selfish leader would not humble himself to save anyone, even his own
   son.
   I hope to live and reign with Christ someday, but that’s never going to
   happen unless I choose to embrace humility now, like Moses chose when
   he was alive. It is said about this unique prophet, “The man Moses was
   very meek, above all the men who were on the face of the earth”
   (Numbers 12:3).
   That’s quite extraordinary considering he had the opportunity to live
   in the palaces of Egypt. Moses could have been a proud king. He could
   have had the whole world bowing down before him; he could have been
   looking upon the pyramids when they were still glistening with gold in
   the sun. Yet he humbly walked away from it because he wanted to serve
   God.
   Guess where he is now? He’s in the presence of Christ, one of the
   select few already living in heaven. That’s better than being an
   embalmed pharaoh surrounded by dusty artifacts. And it’s all because
   Moses humbled himself so that the Lord could lift him up. We need to
   realize our true status if God is going to transform us from a worm to
   a butterfly.
   Be Like Christ
   The contrasting examples of Pharaoh’s pride and Moses’ meekness are a
   symbol of Lucifer and Jesus. And each one of us must choose to imitate
   the traits of one or the other. So here is a final unfailing principle
   you should know: God most exalts those who are most humble and humbles
   those who are most proud.
   Who is going to receive the greatest humiliation on judgment day?
   Satan, because he wants to be God. He exalted himself more than any
   other being in creation; therefore, he is going to be humbled more than
   any other. He who walked next to the Almighty among glistening precious
   gems is going to be thrown into the lake of fire. It is the biggest
   demotion in history. He wanted to go from creation to creator; he’s
   going to experience the opposite.
   Who humbled himself the most? Jesus, because He stepped down from His
   heavenly throne into the pit of humiliation and death out of love for
   His creation. Jesus was the Creator becoming the creation. Jesus
   “humbled Himself and became obedient to the point of death. … Therefore
   God also has highly exalted Him and given Him the name which is above
   every name” (Philippians 2:8, 9).
   These primary characters of Jesus and of Lucifer are at war within us
   all. Never are you more like the devil than when you are proud. Never
   are you more like Jesus than when you’re humble, because that was one
   of the greatest demonstrations of His character on the cross. We each
   are going to copy one of these two models in our lives. For your sake
   and for the sake of God’s kingdom, choose humility today and ask God to
   help you.

   Download PDF

    «
   Previous
   The Power of Little Things
   »
   Next
   Bee a Sweet Christian
   Comments

   When you post, you agree to the terms and conditions of our comments
   policy. Click here to read it.
   If you have a Bible question for Pastor Doug Batchelor or the Amazing
   Facts Bible answer team, please submit it by clicking here. Due to
   staff size, we are unable to answer Bible questions posted in the
   comments.
     __________________________________________________________________

   To help maintain a Christian environment, we closely moderate all
   comments.
    1. Please be patient. We strive to approve comments the day they are
       made, but please allow at least 24 hours for your comment to
       appear. Comments made on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday may not be
       approved until the following Monday.
    2. Comments that include name-calling, profanity, harassment,
       ridicule, etc. will be automatically deleted and the invitation to
       participate revoked.
    3. Comments containing URLs outside the family of Amazing Facts
       websites will not be approved.
    4. Comments containing telephone numbers or email addresses will not
       be approved.
    5. Comments off topic may be deleted.
    6. Please do not comment in languages other than English.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Please note: Approved comments do not constitute an endorsement by the
   ministry of Amazing Facts or by Pastor Doug Batchelor. This website
   allows dissenting comments and beliefs, but our comment sections are
   not a forum for ongoing debate.
   Subscribe to our email lists

Featured Pages

     * Media Library
     * Daily Devotional
     * Free Book Library
     * Bible Study Guides
     * God's Promises
     * Donate
     * Employment Opportunities
     * Planned Giving

Recent Articles

   Valuable in God’s Eyes

Valuable in God’s Eyes
     __________________________________________________________________

   Finding Peace

Finding Peace

   © Amazing Facts International
   6615 Sierra College Blvd
   Granite Bay, CA 95746
   Amazing Facts is a 501(c)3 Non-Profit Organization
   Phone #(916) 434-3880  |  Tax ID# 82-2966470
   Terms Of Use   |  Privacy Statement   |  info@amazingfacts.org
   Facebook WhatsApp Telegram EMail Print Copy

   Back To Top
   free hit counter
   Facebook
