   #ConnectUS » Feed ConnectUS » Comments Feed 10 Powerful Ways to Draw
   Near to God 250 Ice Breaker Questions for Teen Youth Groups alternate
   alternate

   Skip to content

   ConnectUS

   ____________________
   Search
   (BUTTON) Menu
     * Uplifting Prayers
     * Inspiring Bible Verses
     * 3-Minute Commentaries
     * Coloring Pages
     * Contact
     * Search

25 Important Examples of Pride in the Bible

   Mar 5, 2022Mar 8, 2022 by Editor in Chief

   According to the Bible, pride is when you think too highly of yourself.
   Sinful pride usually involves you thinking and acting in a way that
   shows you think you are better than God and/or the people around you.

   Since not all pride is sin, let’s look at 25 important examples of
   pride in the Bible to learn exactly what sinful pride is so we can
   examine our own pride in our lives.

1. Jesus is Beat and Mocked by the Guards

   “Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the governor’s
   headquarters, and they gathered the whole battalion before him. And
   they stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him, and twisting together
   a crown of thorns, they put it on his head and put a reed in his right
   hand. And kneeling before him, they mocked him, saying, ‘Hail, King of
   the Jews!’ And they spit on him and took the reed and struck him on the
   head.” (Matthew 27:27-30 ESV)

   C.S. Lewis said, “the essential vice, the utmost evil, is Pride.” We
   see pride, the utmost evil, in action as the guards take the King of
   the Universe, Jesus Christ, and treat Him as if He were no better than
   dirt. They beat and mock Jesus before sending Him to the cross,
   treating Jesus as though He were inferior to them.

2. Naaman’s Refusal to Get into the Water

   “And Elisha sent a messenger to him, saying, ‘Go and wash in the Jordan
   seven times, and your flesh shall be restored, and you shall be clean.’
   But Naaman was angry and went away, saying, ‘Behold, I thought that he
   would surely come out to me and stand and call upon the name of the
   Lord his God, and wave his hand over the place and cure the leper.'”
   (2nd Kings 5:10-11 ESV)

   Naaman had a severe disease called leprosy, which would eventually kill
   him if nothing was done about it. Elisha told Naaman that God would
   heal him if Naaman would go wash in the Jordan River, which was a very
   gross body of water. Naaman was too proud of a man to do so, but
   eventually, he changed his mind and was healed.

3. Simon the Magician Tries to Buy the Holy Spirit

   “Now when Simon saw that the Spirit was given through the laying on of
   the apostles’ hands, he offered them money, saying, ‘Give me this power
   also, so that anyone on whom I lay my hands may receive the Holy
   Spirit.'” (Acts 8:18-19 ESV)

   Simon saw the Holy Spirit work through the Apostles, and he wanted the
   same gift. In an ultimate act of pride, Simon tried to buy the gift of
   the Holy Spirit with money. He tried to take a gift that came from
   God’s grace and buy it for his prideful pleasure.

4. The Pride in All of Our Hearts

   “Therefore God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to impurity,
   to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves, because they
   exchanged the truth about God for a lie and worshiped and served the
   creature rather than the Creator, who is blessed forever! Amen.”
   (Romans 1:24-25 ESV)

   There are points in all of our lives where we sin by doing what God
   does not want us to do.  We choose to use the good things that God has
   given us for selfish pleasure. We are being prideful people by doing
   what we want instead of what the Creator has called us to do.

5. Adam and Eve Eat the Forbidden Fruit

   “So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was
   a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one
   wise, she took of its fruit and ate, and she also gave some to her
   husband who was with her, and he ate.” (Genesis 3:6 ESV)

   When God made the universe, He gave the first humans, Adam and Eve, one
   rule. That was not to eat the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good
   and evil. Due to their pride, they thought they knew more than God and
   ate the fruit anyway.

6. Saul Persecutes the Church

   “And there arose on that day a great persecution against the church in
   Jerusalem, and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea
   and Samaria, except the apostles. Devout men buried Stephen and made
   great lamentation over him. But Saul was ravaging the church, and
   entering house after house, he dragged off men and women and committed
   them to prison.” (Acts 8:1-3 ESV)

   Saul, who would later become the apostle Paul, who wrote most of the
   New Testament, persecuted the early church. Before Saul met Jesus, he
   was a prideful person who thought he was better than the Jewish
   Christians. Saul thought he had the right to beat, imprison, and kill
   them.

7. Goliath Judgment of David

   “And the Philistine moved forward and came near to David, with his
   shield-bearer in front of him. And when the Philistine looked and saw
   David, he disdained him, for he was but a youth, ruddy and handsome in
   appearance.” (1 Samuel 17:41-42 ESV)

   The Philistine, who is Goliath, looks at the young man David and thinks
   David is not a worthy opponent to fight. Goliath’s sinful pride only
   allows him to look at the outside of David, not his heart. It is a good
   thing that God judges our hearts and not by our physical appearances.

8. The Golden Statue of Nebuchadnezzar

   “King Nebuchadnezzar made an image of gold, whose height was sixty
   cubits and its breadth six cubits. He set it up on the plain of Dura,
   in the province of Babylon. And the herald proclaimed aloud, ‘You are
   commanded, O peoples, nations, and languages, that when you hear the
   sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, trigon, harp, bagpipe, and every kind of
   music, you are to fall down and worship the golden image that King
   Nebuchadnezzar has set up.'” (Daniel 3:1&4-5 ESV)

   In the book of Daniel, King Nebuchadnezzar makes a giant gold statue of
   himself and forces everyone to bow to it. The sin of pride is seen here
   by Nebuchadnezzar making much of himself instead of God. Later in the
   book of Daniel, Nebuchadnezzar’s pride leads to him having a very hard
   time in his life.

9. The Pharisee Judges the Sinner Woman

   “One of the Pharisees asked him to eat with him, and he went into the
   Pharisee’s house and reclined at table. And behold, a woman of the
   city, who was a sinner, when she learned that he was reclining at table
   in the Pharisee’s house, brought an alabaster flask of ointment, and
   standing behind him at his feet, weeping, she began to wet his feet
   with her tears and wiped them with the hair of her head and kissed his
   feet and anointed them with the ointment. Now when the Pharisee who had
   invited him saw this, he said to himself, ‘If this man were a prophet,
   he would have known who and what sort of woman this is who is touching
   him, for she is a sinner.'” (Luke 7:36-39 ESV)

   The sinner woman, who was probably a prostitute, cleans Jesus’ feet and
   puts a lovely smelling perfume on Him. The Pharisee, instead of seeing
   a woman who needs the love of Christ Jesus, judges her and sees a woman
   who he thinks is the scum of society (as someone fulfilling mens’ lust
   of the flesh). This prideful person judges the woman because he views
   himself as better than her.

10. The Pride of the Haughty Spirit

   “Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.”
   (Proverbs 16:18 ESV)

   The book of Proverbs is full of teaching on pride. “Haughty” means that
   you think you are superior or that you have an exalted sense of
   yourself. People who have a haughty spirit are full of pride because
   they believe they are better than those around them.

11. Opposition of the Proud

   “But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, ‘God opposes the proud but
   gives grace to the humble.'” (James 4:6 ESV)

   There is such a thing as good pride in the Bible. However, most of the
   time that pride is mentioned in Scripture, it is something we want to
   oppose. Often, people whose life is marked by this pride do not
   understand their need for grace or humility.

12. Judas Sells Jesus for 30 Pieces of Silver

   “Then one of the twelve, whose name was Judas Iscariot, went to the
   chief priests and said, ‘What will you give me if I deliver him over to
   you?’ And they paid him thirty pieces of silver. And from that moment
   he sought an opportunity to betray him.” (Matthew 26:14-17 ESV)

   Even though Judas traveled with Jesus for three years, hearing Him
   teach God’s word, he sold Jesus for 30 pieces of silver. In a prideful
   moment of defiance, Judas thought he was better than Jesus and was
   willing to trade Jesus to those that wanted to kill Him.

13. The Pharisee Who Thinks He Is Better than a Tax Collector

   “He also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they
   were righteous, and treated others with contempt: ‘Two men went up into
   the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The
   Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed thus: ‘God, I thank you that I am
   not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this
   tax collector. I fast twice a week; I give tithes of all that I get.’
   But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his
   eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, ‘God, be merciful to me, a
   sinner!’ I tell you, this man went down to his house justified, rather
   than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but
   the one who humbles himself will be exalted.'” (Luke 18:9-14 ESV)

   Pride can be seen in the Pharisee because he thinks he is better than
   the tax collector because of his good works. However, we see the tax
   collector crying out for God’s mercy because of his sin. Wise men boast
   in the Lord and not the good things they do.

14. Pride in Your Possessions

   “For all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires
   of the eyes and pride in possessions—is not from the Father but is from
   the world.” (1st John 2:16 ESV)

   The world will teach us to find our worth in what we look like and own.
   However, this is the perspective of the proud person who is of this
   world. We have worth in God because He is the Creator of the world.

15. Pride in the Good Gifts God Has Gave Us

   “Thus says the Lord: “‘Let not the wise man boast in his wisdom, let
   not the mighty man boast in his might, let not the rich man boast in
   his riches, but let him who boasts boast in this, that he understands
   and knows me, that I am the Lord who practices steadfast love, justice,
   and righteousness in the earth. For in these things I delight, declares
   the Lord.'” (Jeremiah 9:23-24 ESV)

   It would be easy for us to boast about the things that we are good at
   or have a lot of. However, that comes from pride because everything we
   have comes from God. Instead, we should boast in God because we get
   everything from Him!

16. Pride Prevents Us from Serving Others

   “Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count
   others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only
   to his own interests, but also to the interests of others.”
   (Philippians 2:3-4 ESV)

   Humility is the exact opposite of pride. Pride tells us to put
   ourselves at the center of the universe. However, humility actually
   calls us to love and serve the people around us by looking out for
   their interests.

17. Hidden Pride in the Disciples

   “An argument arose among them as to which of them was the greatest. But
   Jesus, knowing the reasoning of their hearts, took a child and put him
   by his side and said to them, ‘”Whoever receives this child in my name
   receives me, and whoever receives me receives him who sent me. For he
   who is least among you all is the one who is great.”‘ (Luke 9:46-48
   ESV)

   People often have pride and do not even know it is hiding in their
   hearts. For example, when the disciples are fighting over who will be
   the greatest in the kingdom of heaven, Jesus shows them that those who
   are greatest have nothing to do with position but has to do with those
   who are willing to serve.

   Jonathan Edwards, who was one of America’s most important theologians
   and died in 1758, wrote an essay called Undetected Spiritual Pride. He
   listed seven sneaky (or subtle) symptoms of pride. They are:
    1. Price: the Great Fault-Finder
          + This is when we criticize other people or note how they don’t
            measure up.
    2. Pride: Ministering in a Harsh Spirit
          + This is when we are unkind to others, even other Christians,
            and do not treat them as Christ treats them.
    3. Pride: Putting on Pretenses
          + This is when we act differently than we are, because we want
            to please others.
    4. Pride: Takes Offense Easily
          + This is when we act mean or bitterly when we have been
            offended, instead of being quiet and letting God be the Judge.
    5. Pride: Presumption Before God and Man
          + This is when we are too bold or confident before God, instead
            of treating him with the awe and reverence He deserves.
    6. Pride: Hungry for Attention
          + This is when we do things because we want to be noticed, or we
            think everyone needs our help.
    7. Pride: Neglecting Others
          + This is when we avoid others, especially those who we view to
            be sinful or unteachable. Instead, as Christ came down to our
            level, so should we with others who need spiritual guidance.

   Reading and understanding these symptoms of spiritual pride show us
   “the main door by which the devil comes into the hearts of those who
   are zealous for the advancement of Christ.” (Jonathan Edwards) He says
   that spiritual pride is so important because from it comes all the
   other bad behaviors that lead us astray.

18. Pride in Building a Tower to Reach God

   “Then they said, ‘Come, let us build ourselves a city and a tower with
   its top in the heavens, and let us make a name for ourselves, lest we
   be dispersed over the face of the whole earth.'” (Genesis 11:4 ESV)

   At this point in history, there was one language. In this Bible verse,
   the proud people think that they can build a tower to God and be better
   than Him. Since God hates pride, He humbles the people by changing
   their languages and spreading them worldwide.

19. Herod Tries to Be God

   “On an appointed day Herod put on his royal robes, took his seat upon
   the throne, and delivered an oration to them. And the people were
   shouting, “The voice of a god, and not of a man!” Immediately an angel
   of the Lord struck him down, because he did not give God the glory, and
   he was eaten by worms and breathed his last.” (Acts 12:21-23 ESV)

   Herod puts himself in the place of God by allowing people to worship
   him as a god. The ultimate sign of pride is thinking and allowing
   others to believe that you are God.

20. Pharaoh Refuses to Listen to God

   “Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘Go in to Pharaoh and say to him, ‘Thus
   says the Lord, ‘Let my people go, that they may serve me’…But when
   Pharaoh saw that there was a respite, he hardened his heart and would
   not listen to them, as the Lord had said.” (Exodus 8:1 & 15 ESV)

   God tells Pharoah by the mouth of Moses to let His people, the
   Israelites, go from slavery under the Egyptians so that they may serve
   the Lord. In a sign of his pride, Pharaoh tells God “no” multiple
   times, is plagued, repents, and then tells God “no” again.

   God plagued Pharoah a total of ten different times:
     * Water turned to blood
     * Frogs from the Nile River
     * Lice arising out of dust
     * Swarms of flies
     * Death of the livestock
     * Boils and sores
     * Hail of fire
     * Locusts
     * Three days of darkness
     * Death of all firstborn

   God continued to give Pharoah chances to obey Him, and began the
   plagues with the least harm to increasing harm as Pharoah continued to
   renege on his promises in his displays of self-righteous pride.

21. The Pride of Haughty Eyes

   “Haughty eyes and a proud heart, the lamp of the wicked, are sin.”
   (Proverbs 21:4 ESV)

   Haughty eyes are often associated with looking down at others. This
   shows that your heart is full of pride because you think you are better
   than others. Instead of looking down on others, we should be looking up
   to God and praying to Him for humble hearts because God gives grace to
   the humble.

   Jesus did not look down on people based on intellect, wealthy, social
   status, education, criminal background, or based on any of the ways we
   so often sadly see in this world today. We are called to love and walk
   in the image of Christ.

22. The Deception of Pride

   “For if anyone thinks he is something, when he is nothing, he deceives
   himself.” (Galatians 6:3 ESV)

   Prideful people think that they are something special, when none of us
   can compare to God. The good news is that even though we are not
   something, our God is. We get to know the one who created it all.

23. Uzziah’s Pride Leads to Death of Many

   “But when he was strong, he grew proud, to his destruction. For he was
   unfaithful to the Lord his God and entered the temple of the Lord to
   burn incense on the altar of incense.” (2nd Chronicles 26:16 ESV)

   Uzziah is leading Israel successfully as their king, which leads him to
   go into the temple and give an offering that was not his job. While
   this may seem like a little thing, he did not listen to the rules God
   put in place. The consequences of pride led to the death of many.

24. Jonah Flees From God

   “Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah the son of Amittai, saying,
   ‘Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it, for
   their evil has come up before me.’ But Jonah rose to flee to Tarshish
   from the presence of the Lord. He went down to Joppa and found a ship
   going to Tarshish. So he paid the fare and went down into it, to go
   with them to Tarshish, away from the presence of the Lord.” (Jonah
   1:1-3 ESV)

   The Lord tells Jonah to go and preach about His grace in Nineveh, but
   Jonah does not want to because he does not want those in Nineveh to get
   a second chance. Jonah’s pride led him to run in the opposite direction
   from God. He had so much pride that he thought he could outrun God.

25. Loving Yourself More Than God

   “But understand this, that in the last days there will come times of
   difficulty. For people will be lovers of self, lovers of money, proud,
   arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy,
   heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not
   loving good, treacherous, reckless, swollen with conceit, lovers of
   pleasure rather than lovers of God.” (2nd Timothy 3:1-4 ESV)

   The last days are the period of time from the resurrection of Jesus to
   His second coming. During these last times, people will choose to love
   themselves over loving God by giving in to all the sin mentioned in
   these Bible verses. They will be swollen with conceit (pride) because
   they will put other people and things above their love for God.

Conclusion

   The Hebrew word for “pride” can literally be translated as “high.” The
   Hebrew word for “pride” can also be translated as “haughtiness,”
   “boastfulness,” “arrogance,” or “conceit.” As we see from every one of
   these 25 great examples above, sinful pride is when you choose to love
   yourself more than God and the people around you.

   Pride is the opposite of humility or being a humble person with a
   humble spirit and a humble heart. People full of pride choose to use
   God and others to lift themselves up. Where do you see yourself lifting
   up yourself or making yourself the center of attention over God and
   other people?
     * Share
     * (BUTTON) Pin
     * Tweet

   Author Bio
   Natalie Regoli is a child of God, devoted wife, and mother of two boys.
   She has a Master's Degree in Law from The University of Texas. Natalie
   has been published in several national journals and has been practicing
   law for 18 years.

   Categories Faith

   Post navigation
   10 Powerful Ways to Draw Near to God
   250 Ice Breaker Questions for Teen Youth Groups

Recent Posts

     * 50 Biblically Accurate Facts About Angels in the Bible
     * 50 Most Profitable Youth Group Fundraising Ideas for Your Church
     * 50 Best Verses from Psalms for Funerals
     * 250 Ice Breaker Questions for Teen Youth Groups
     * 25 Important Examples of Pride in the Bible
     * 10 Powerful Ways to Draw Near to God
     * 50 Great Examples of Grace in the Bible
     * 25 Ways to Set Your Mind on Things Above
     * Why Jesus Wept and 11 Lessons from His Tears
     * 25 Different Ways to Worship God and Praise the Lord

Recent Posts

     * 50 Biblically Accurate Facts About Angels in the Bible
     * 50 Most Profitable Youth Group Fundraising Ideas for Your Church
     * 50 Best Verses from Psalms for Funerals
     * 250 Ice Breaker Questions for Teen Youth Groups
     * 25 Important Examples of Pride in the Bible
     * 10 Powerful Ways to Draw Near to God
     * 50 Great Examples of Grace in the Bible
     * 25 Ways to Set Your Mind on Things Above
     * Why Jesus Wept and 11 Lessons from His Tears
     * 25 Different Ways to Worship God and Praise the Lord

Categories

   Bible Commentary
   Bible Verses
   Devotionals
   Faith
   Prayers
   Coloring Pages
   Pros and Cons

Archives

   Archives [Select Month__]

     * Home
     * Privacy Policy
     * Contact Us

   © 2024 ConnectUSFund
