<lang="en">
<page="en-1">
<text>
   [ ] Toggle the table of contents

Pride

   [ ] 31 languages
     * العربية
--

   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
   Positive effect from the perceived value of a person
   For other uses, see Pride (disambiguation).
   Part of a series on
                             Emotions
   [90px-Plutchik-wheel.svg.png] [90px-Plutchik_Dyads.svg.png]
--
     * Passion
     * Pity
     * Pleasure
     * Pride
     * Rage
     * Regret
     * Rejection
--
     * t
     * e

   [220px-Allegory_of_Pride_Met_DP888806.jpg] Allegory of pride, from c.
   1590–1630, engraving, 22.3 cm × 16.6 cm, in the Metropolitan Museum of
   Art (New York City)

   Pride is defined by Merriam-Webster as "reasonable self-esteem" or
   "confidence and satisfaction in oneself".^[1] Oxford defines it as "the
   quality of having an excessively high opinion of oneself or one's own
   importance."^[2] Pride may be related to one's own abilities or
   achievements, positive characteristics of friends or family, or one's
   country. Richard Taylor defined pride as "the justified love of
   oneself",^[3] as opposed to false pride or narcissism. Similarly, St.
   Augustine defined it as "the love of one's own excellence",^[4] and
   Meher Baba called it "the specific feeling through which egoism
   manifests."^[5]

   Philosophers and social psychologists have noted that pride is a
   complex secondary emotion that requires the development of a sense of
   self and the mastery of relevant conceptual distinctions (e.g. that
   pride is distinct from happiness and joy) through language-based
   interaction with others.^[6] Some social psychologists identify the
   nonverbal expression of pride as a means of sending a functional,
   automatically perceived signal of high social status.^[7]

   Pride may be considered the opposite of shame or of humility,^[8]
   sometimes as proper or as a virtue, and sometimes as corrupt or as a
   vice. With a positive connotation, pride refers to a content sense of
   attachment toward one's own or another's choices and actions, or toward
   a whole group of people, and is a product of praise, independent
   self-reflection, and a fulfilled feeling of belonging. Other possible
   objects of pride are one's ethnicity, and one's sex identity (for
   example LGBT pride).^[citation needed] With a negative connotation
   pride refers to a foolishly^[9] and irrationally corrupt sense of one's
   personal value, status or accomplishments,^[10] used synonymously with
   hubris.

   While some philosophers such as Aristotle (and George Bernard Shaw)
   consider pride (but not hubris) a profound virtue, some world religions
   consider pride's fraudulent form a sin, such as is expressed in
   Proverbs 11:2 of the Hebrew Bible. In Judaism, pride is called the root
   of all evil. When viewed as a virtue, pride in one's abilities is known
   as virtuous pride, greatness of soul, or magnanimity, but when viewed
   as a vice it is often known to be self-idolatry, sadistic contempt,
   vanity, or vainglory.

--

Ancient Greek philosophy[edit]

   Aristotle identified pride (megalopsuchia, variously translated as
   proper pride, the greatness of soul and magnanimity)^[13] as the crown
   of the virtues, distinguishing it from vanity, temperance, and
   humility, thus:

--
     naive men think that by ill-treating others they make their own
     superiority the greater.^[15]

   Thus, although pride and hubris are often deemed the same thing, for
   Aristotle and many philosophers hubris is an entirely different thing
   from pride.

Psychology[edit]

   Pride, when classified as an emotion or passion, is both cognitive and
   evaluative; its object, that which it cognizes and evaluates, is the
   self and its properties, or something the proud individual identifies
   with.^[10] The field of psychology classifies it with guilt and shame
   as a self-conscious emotion that results from the evaluations of
   oneself and one's behavior according to internal and external
   standards.^[16] Pride results from satisfying or conforming to a
   standard; guilt or shame from defying it. There is a lack of research
   that addresses pride, perhaps because it is despised as well as valued
   in the individualist West, where it is experienced as pleasurable.^[17]

  Emotion[edit]

   In psychological terms, positive pride is "a pleasant, sometimes
   exhilarating, emotion that results from a positive
   self-evaluation".^[18] It was added to the University of California,
   Davis, "Set of Emotion Expressions", as one of three "self-conscious"
--
   embarrassment and shame).^[19]

   The term "fiero" was coined by Italian psychologist Isabella Poggi to
   describe the pride experienced and expressed in the moments following a
   personal triumph over adversity.^[20] Facial expressions and gestures
   that demonstrate pride can involve a lifting of the chin, smiles, or
   arms on hips to demonstrate victory. Individuals may implicitly grant
   status to others based solely on their expressions of pride, even in
   cases in which they wish to avoid doing so. Indeed, some studies show
   that the nonverbal expression of pride conveys a message that is
   automatically perceived by others about a person's high social status
   in a group.^[7]

   Behaviorally, pride can also be expressed by adopting an expanded
   posture in which the head is tilted back and the arms extended out from
   the body. This postural display is innate as it is shown in
   congenitally blind individuals who have lacked the opportunity to see
--

  Positive outcomes[edit]

   Pride results from self-directed satisfaction with meeting personal
   goals; for example positive performance outcomes elicit pride in a
   person when the event is appraised as having been caused by that person
   alone.^[22]^[full citation needed]

   Pride as a display of the strong self that promotes feelings of
   similarity to strong others, as well as differentiation from weak
   others. Seen in this light, pride can be conceptualized as a
   hierarchy-enhancing emotion, as its experience and display helps rid
   negotiations of conflict.^[23]

   Pride involves exhilarated pleasure and a feeling of accomplishment. It
   is related to "more positive behaviors and outcomes in the area where
   the individual is proud".^[24]^[full citation needed] Pride is
   associated with positive social behaviors such as helping others and
   outward promotion^[clarification needed]. Along with hope, it is an
   emotion that facilitates performance attainment, as it can help trigger
   and sustain focused and appetitive effort to prepare for upcoming
   evaluative events. It may also help enhance the quality and flexibility
   of the effort expended.^[25]^[full citation needed] Pride can enhance
   creativity, productivity, and altruism.^[26]^[full citation needed]
   Pride is associated with a higher GPA in less socioeconomically
   advantaged neighborhoods, whereas in more advantaged neighborhoods,
   pride is associated with a lower GPA.^[27]

  Economics[edit]

   In the field of economic psychology, pride is conceptualized on a
   spectrum ranging from "proper pride", associated with genuine
   achievements, and "false pride", which can be maladaptive or even
   pathological. Lea et al. examined the role of pride in various economic
   situations and claim that in all cases pride is involved because
   economic decisions are not taken in isolation from one another, but are
   linked together by the selfhood of the people who take
   them^[clarification needed].^[28] Understood in this way, pride is an
   emotional state that works to ensure that people take financial
   decisions that are in their long-term interests, even when in the short
   term they would appear irrational.
--

   See also: Self-esteem § Contingent vs. non-contingent

   [180px-Pride%2C_Jacob_Matham.png] Pride, from the Seven Deadly Sins by
   Jacob Matham c. 1592.

   Inordinate self-esteem is called "pride".^[29] Classical Christian
   theology views pride as being the result of high self-esteem, and
   thus^[non sequitur] high self-esteem was viewed as the primary human
   problem, but beginning in the 20th century, "humanistic psychology"
   diagnosed the primary human problem as low self-esteem stemming from a
--
   people "regard themselves as worthless and unlovable." Thus, they lack
   self-esteem.^[30]^: 40, 87, 95 

   In the King James Bible, people exhibiting excess pride are labeled
   with the term, "Haughty".

     Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall.

   — King James Version of the Bible (1611), Book of Proverbs, 16:18

   Terry Cooper describes excessive pride (along with low self-esteem) as
   an important framework in which to describe the human condition. He
   examines and compares the Augustinian-Niebuhrian conviction that pride
   is primary, the feminist concept of pride as being absent in the
   experience of women, the humanistic psychology position that pride does
   not adequately account for anyone's experience, and the humanistic
   psychology idea that if pride emerges, it is always a false front
   designed to protect an undervalued self.^[30]

   He considers that the work of certain neo-Freudian psychoanalysts,
   namely Karen Horney, and offers promise in dealing with^[clarification
   needed] what he calls a "deadlock between the overvalued and
   undervalued self".^[30]^: 112–13  Cooper refers to their work in
   describing the connection between religious and psychological pride as
   well as sin to describe how a neurotic pride system underlies an
   appearance of self-contempt and low self-esteem:

     The "idealized self," the "tyranny of the should," the "pride
     system", and the nature of self-hate all point toward the
     intertwined relationship between neurotic pride and self-contempt.
     Understanding how a neurotic pride system underlies an appearance of
     self-contempt and low self-esteem.^[sentence
     fragment]^[30]^: 112–13 

--
   A group that boasts, gloats, or denigrates others tends to become a
   group with low social status or to be vulnerable to threats from other
   groups.^[33]^[better source needed] "[H]ubristic, pompous displays of
   group pride might be a sign of group insecurity as opposed to a sign of
   strength,"^[This quote needs a citation] while those who express pride
   by being filled with humility whilst focusing on members' efforts and
   hard work tend to achieve high social standing in both the adult public
   and personal eyes.

   Research from the University of Sydney found that hubristic pride
   correlates with arrogance and self-aggrandizement and promotes
   prejudice and discrimination. But authentic pride is associated with
   self-confidence and accomplishment and promotes more positive attitudes
   toward outgroups and stigmatized individuals.^[34]

--

  Across the world[edit]

   Pride in ones own ethnicity or ones own culture seems to universally
   have positive connotations,^[dubious – discuss]^[35] though like
   earlier discussions on pride, when pride tips into hubris, people have
   been known to commit atrocities.^[36]

   Types of pride across the world seem to have a broad variety. The
   difference of type may have no greater contrast than that between the
   U.S. and China.^[ambiguous]^[37] In the U.S., individual pride
   tends^[clarification needed] and seems to be held more often in
   thought. The people in China seem to hold greater views^[clarification
   needed] for the nation as a whole.^[38]

   The value of pride in the individual or the society as a whole seems to
   be a running theme and debate among cultures.^[39] This debate shadows
   the discussion on pride so much so that perhaps the discussion on pride
   shouldn't be about whether pride is necessarily good or bad, but about
   which form of it is the most useful.^[39]

   Pride has gained a lot of negative recognition in the western cultures
   largely due to its status as one of the Seven Deadly Sins. It was
   popularized by the Pope Gregory I of the Catholic Church in the late
   sixth century, but before that it was recognized by a Christian Monk
--
  German[edit]

   The Father and Mother by Boardman Robinson depicting War as the
   offspring of Greed and Pride.

   Main article: German nationalism

   In Germany, "national pride" ("Nationalstolz") is often associated with
   Nazism. Strong displays of national pride are therefore considered to
   be in poor taste by many Germans. There is an ongoing public debate
   about the issue of German patriotism. The World Cup in 2006, held in
   Germany, saw a wave of patriotism sweep the country in a manner not
--

  Asian[edit]

   Main article: Asian pride

   The term "Asian pride" in modern usage refers mostly to those of East
   Asian descent, though it can include anyone of Asian descent. Asian
   pride was originally fragmented, as Asian nations have long had
   conflicts with each other; examples are the old Japanese and Chinese
   religious beliefs about their superiority. Asian pride emerged
   prominently during European colonialism.^[42] At one time, Europeans
   controlled 85% of the world's land through colonialism, resulting in
   anti-Western feelings among Asian nations.^[42] Today, some Asians
   still look upon European involvement in their affairs with
   suspicion.^[42] In contrast, Asian empires are proudly remembered by
   adherents of Asian Pride.

  Black[edit]

   Main article: Black pride

   Black pride is a slogan used primarily in the United States to raise
   awareness for a black racial identity. The slogan has been used by
   African Americans of sub-Saharan African origin or ancestry to denote a
   feeling of self-confidence, self-respect, celebrating one's heritage,
--

  White[edit]

   Main article: White pride

   White pride is a slogan mainly (but not exclusively) used by white
   separatist, white nationalist, neo-Nazi, and white supremacist
   organizations in the United States for a white race
   identity.^[43]^[full citation needed] White pride also consists of
   white ethnic/cultural pride.

Mad[edit]

   Main article: Mad pride

   [180px-2016-05-16-Mad_Pride_K%C3%B6ln_2016-4988.jpg] Bed Push at Mad
   Pride parade in Cologne, Germany, in 2016

   Mad pride is a worldwide movement and philosophy that mentally ill
   people should be proud of their madness. It advocates mutual support
   and rallies for their rights,^[44] and aims to popularize the word
   "mad" as a self-descriptor.^[45]

LGBT[edit]

   Main article: LGBT pride

   [180px-2017-05-27_D%C3%BCsseldorf%2C_Christopher_Street_Day_%2810%29_%2
   8freddy2001%29_%28cropped%29.jpg] Pride parade, Düsseldorf 2017

   LGBT pride is a worldwide movement and philosophy asserting that
   lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) individuals
   should be proud of their sexual orientation and gender identity. LGBT
   pride includes advocacy for equal rights and benefits for LGBT
   people.^[46] The movement has three main premises: that people should
   be proud of their sexual orientation and gender identity, that sexual
   diversity is a gift, and that sexual orientation and gender identity
   are inherent and cannot be intentionally
   altered.^[47]^[better source needed]

   The word "pride" is used in this case as an antonym for "shame". It is
   an affirmation of self and community. The modern gay pride movement
   began after the Stonewall riots of the late 1960s. In June 1970, the
   first pride parade in the United States commemorated the one-year
   anniversary of the Stonewall riots—the nearly week-long uprising
   between New York City youth and police officers following a raid of
   Stonewall Inn.^[48]
--
   Main article: Vanity

   [220px-Jheronimus_Bosch_Table_of_the_Mortal_Sins_%28Superbia%29.jpg]
   Detail of "Pride" in The Seven Deadly Sins and the Four Last Things by
   Hieronymus Bosch

   In conventional parlance, vanity sometimes is used in a positive sense
   to refer to a rational concern for one's appearance, attractiveness,
   and dress, and is thus not the same as pride. However, it also refers
   to an excessive or irrational belief in or concern with one's abilities
   or attractiveness in the eyes of others and may in that sense be
   compared to pride. The term vanity originates from the Latin word
   vanitas meaning emptiness, untruthfulness, futility, foolishness, and
   empty pride.^[49] Here empty pride means a fake pride, in the sense of
   vainglory, unjustified by one's own achievements and actions, but
   sought by pretense and appeals to superficial characteristics.
   [220px-Alexandre_Cabanel_-_Fallen_Angel.jpg] "The Fallen Angel" (1847)
   by Alexandre Cabanel, depicting
   Lucifer[220px-Jacques_Callot%2C_Pride_%28Vanity%29%2C_probably_after_16
   21%2C_NGA_5360.jpg] Jacques Callot, Pride (Vanity), probably after 1621

   In many religions, vanity is considered a form of self-idolatry, in
   which one rejects God for the sake of one's own image, and thereby
--
       people
     * Haughtiness – Positive effect from the perceived value of a
       personPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
     * Hubris – Extreme pride or overconfidence, often in combination with
       arrogance
     * Icarus complex
     * Narcissism – Personality trait of self-love of a perceived perfect
--

Notes[edit]

    1. ^ "pride". Merriam-Webster. Archived from the original on 3
       September 2022. Retrieved 3 September 2022.
    2. ^ The New Oxford Dictionary of English. Clarendon Press. 1998.
    3. ^ Taylor, Richard (1995). Restoring Pride: The Lost Virtue of Our
       Age. Prometheus Books. ISBN 9781573920247.
    4. ^ Augustine of Hippo. De amore (in Latin). Vol. IV. Archived from
       the original on 5 November 2008. Retrieved 9 November 2008. "Est
--
       superbia."
    5. ^ Baba, Meher (1967). Discourses. Vol. 2. San Francisco: Sufism
       Reoriented. p. 72. ISBN 978-1880619094..
    6. ^ Sullivan, G.B. (2007). "Wittgenstein and the grammar of pride:
       The relevance of philosophy to studies of self-evaluative
       emotions". New Ideas in Psychology. 25 (3): 233–252.
       doi:10.1016/j.newideapsych.2007.03.003.
    7. ^ ^a ^b Shariff, Azim F.; Tracy, Jessica L. (2009). "Knowing who's
       boss: Implicit perceptions of status from the nonverbal expression
       of pride". Emotion. 9 (5): 631–639. doi:10.1037/a0017089.
       PMID 19803585.
    8. ^ "PRIDE synonyms". Merriam-Webster. Retrieved 2023-12-01.
    9. ^ "hubris". Merriam-Webster. Archived from the original on 6 April
       2016. Retrieved 3 April 2016.
   10. ^ ^a ^b Steinvorth, Ulrich (2016). Pride and Authenticity. Cham:
       Palgrave Macmillan. p. 10. ISBN 9783319341163.
   11. ^ "proud". The Free Dictionary. Archived from the original on 3
       June 2010. Retrieved 9 November 2008.
--
   2012. Retrieved 11 March 2012.

     ^ Tracy, Jessica L.; Matsumoto, David (19 August 2008). "The
   spontaneous expression of pride and shame: Evidence for biologically
   innate nonverbal displays". Proceedings of the National Academy of
   Sciences. 105 (33): 11655–11660. Bibcode:2008PNAS..10511655T.
   doi:10.1073/pnas.0802686105. JSTOR 25463738. PMC 2575323.
--

     ^ Weiner et al.

     ^ Oveis, C.; Horberg, E. J.; Keltner, D. (2010). "Compassion, pride,
   and social intuitions of self-other similarity". Journal of Personality
   and Social Psychology. 98 (4): 618–630. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.307.534.
   doi:10.1037/a0017628. PMID 20307133.
--
   Journal of Youth and Adolescence. 38 (4): 544–559.
   doi:10.1007/s10964-008-9381-9. PMID 19636727. S2CID 45063561.

     ^ Lea, S. E. G.; Webley, P. (1996). "Pride in economic psychology".
   Journal of Economic Psychology. 18 (2–3): 323–340.
   doi:10.1016/s0167-4870(97)00011-1.

     ^ "pride". Oxford English Dictionary Online. Oxford University Press.
   n.1. Archived from the original on 7 September 2015. Retrieved 19 March
   2022. "A high, esp. an excessively high, opinion of one's own worth or
   importance which gives rise to a feeling or attitude of superiority
   over others; inordinate self-esteem."

     ^ ^a ^b ^c ^d Cooper, Terry D. (2003). Sin, Pride &amp; Self-Acceptance:
   The Problem of Identity in Theology &amp; Psychology. Chicago: InterVarsity
   Press.

--

     ^ Study by UC Davis psychologist Cynthia Picket currently in revision

     ^ Ashton-James, Claire (2011). "Pride and Prejudice: How Feelings
   About the Self Influence Judgments of Others". Personality and Social
   Psychology Bulletin. 38 (4): 466–76. doi:10.1177/0146167211429449.
   PMID 22109249. Retrieved 8 February 2021.
--
   November 2022.

     Gemechu, Berhanu (7 June 2022). "The Ethiopians changing their names
   as a show of pride". BBC News. Archived from the original on 1 November
   2022. Retrieved 1 November 2022.

     Pullar, Gordon L. (1992). "Ethnic identity, cultural pride, and
   generations of baggage: a personal experience". Arctic Anthropology. 29
   (2): 182–191. JSTOR 40316321. OCLC 5547262802.

     Castro, Felipe González; Stein, Judith A.; Bentler, Peter M. (July
   2009). "Ethnic Pride, Traditional Family Values, and Acculturation in
   Early Cigarette and Alcohol Use Among Latino Adolescents". The Journal
   of Primary Prevention. 30 (3–4): 265–292.
   doi:10.1007/s10935-009-0174-z. PMC 2818880. PMID 19415497.
--
   PMC 2900985. PMID 21240320.

     ^ Liu, Conghui; Li, Jing; Chen, Chuansheng; Wu, Hanlin; Yuan, Li; Yu,
   Guoliang (19 May 2021). "Individual Pride and Collective Pride:
   Differences Between Chinese and American Corpora". Frontiers in
   Psychology. 12: 513779. doi:10.3389/fpsyg.2021.513779. PMC 8170025.
   PMID 34093292.
--
   November 2022. Retrieved 1 November 2022.

     ^ ^a ^b Van Osch, Yvette M. J.; Breugelmans, Seger M.; Zeelenberg,
   Marcel; Fontaine, Johnny R. J. (2013). "The meaning of pride across
   cultures". Components of Emotional Meaning. pp. 377–387.
   doi:10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199592746.003.0026. ISBN 978-0-19-959274-6.

--
   Scholarship Online. doi:10.1093/oso/9780190864170.003.0006.

     ^ Sullivan, G. B. (2009). "Germany during the 2006 World Cup: The
   role of television in creating a national narrative of pride and 'party
   patriotism'". In Castelló, E.; Dhoest, A.; O'Donnell, H. (eds.). The
   Nation on Screen, Discourses of the National in Global Television.
   Cambridge: Cambridge Scholars Press.
--
   Mighty. Archived from the original on 12 September 2018. Retrieved 12
   September 2018.

     ^ Graham, Ben (5 June 2018). "MAD Pride". WayAhead. Archived from the
   original on 12 September 2018. Retrieved 12 September 2018.

     ^

     *

   Wockner, Rex (12 July 2007). "Pride celebrated worldwide". PrideSource.
   Archived from the original on 28 December 2007. Retrieved 31 July 2007.

     Ireland, Doug (5 July 2007). "Gay Pride in Europe Looks Globally".
   Direland. Archived from the original on 27 September 2007. Retrieved 31
   July 2007.

--

     *

   Jessica Tracy (2016). Take Pride: Why the Deadliest Sin Holds the
   Secret to Human Success. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.
   ISBN 978-0544273177.

--
     * Pity
          + self-pity
     * Pleasure
     * Pride
          + grandiosity
          + hubris
          + insult
--
     * Envy
     * Greed
     * Sloth
     * Pride
     * Wrath

   Describing the sins
--
     * Sloth (Acedia)
     * Wrath (Ira)
     * Envy (Invidia)
     * Pride (Superbia)

     * Source: Prudentius, Psychomachia

--
     * Sisu
     * Virtù

   Pride at Wikipedia's sister projects:
     * Definitions from Wiktionary
     * Media from Commons
     * Quotations from Wikiquote
--
     * Latvia

   Retrieved from
   "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Pride&amp;oldid=1191869668"

   Categories:
     * Pride
     * Emotions
     * Psychological attitude</text>
</page> §
<page="en-10">
<text>
     Relationships

     35 Inspirational Pride Month Quotes Perfect for Your Next Post

         35 Inspirational Pride Month Quotes Perfect for Your Next Post

   These sayings celebrate and honor the LGBTQ+ community.

--

   (BUTTON) bookmarks Save Article

   (BUTTON) Play Icon preview for A Complete Guide to Pride Month

   You're dressed to impress, the #Squad is assembled and now all you have
   to do is document it for posterity (or at least your Instagram
   followers). And luckily, with these best Pride month quotes and sayings
   about the LGBTQ+ community, coming up with a caption will be a breeze.

   After all, a well-chosen funny, pithy, meaningful or
--
   type, these sayings are ready to be sent to all of your friends as
   well-wishes and texts come June.

   Whether you want to shout out your Pride month excitement on Instagram,
   put out the perfect tweet to share your feelings about the importance
   of equality or mail cards to mark the occasion with your partner,
   chosen family or ride-or-die crew, we've got a quote that will fit the
   bill. These are our favorite Pride Month quotes from celebrities,
   LGBTQ+ movies, LGBTQ+ books and pop culture moments.

   From thoughtful reflections on how far we've come as a society and the
   distance we still have to go, to empowering messages that will pump you
   up for however you plan to celebrate, to silly sayings that will spread
   the joy that comes with belonging to the LGBTQ+ family, there's a
   saying out there for every type of Pride. No matter how you're
   celebrating, we're excited to help.
   1

Harvey Milk

   pride month quote on pink background Danielle Carson

   It takes no compromise to give people their rights ... it takes no
   money to respect the individual. It takes no political deal to give
   people freedom. It takes no survey to remove repression.

   RELATED: 35 LGBTQ+ Anthems to Blast During Pride Month and Beyond
   2

President Barack Obama

   pride month quote on teal background Danielle Carson

   When all Americans are treated as equal, no matter who they are or whom
   they love, we are all more free.
--

Tim Cook

   pride month quote on pink background Danielle Carson

   So let me be clear: I'm proud to be gay, and I consider being gay among
   the greatest gifts God has given me.
--

Chaz Bono

   pride month quote on pink background Danielle Carson

   I've been embraced by a new community. That's what happens when you’re
   finally honest about who you are; you find others like you.
--

Anderson Cooper

   pride month quote on pink background Danielle Carson

   I think being gay is a blessing, and it's something I am thankful for
   every single day.
--

Rachel Maddow

   pride month quote on teal background Danielle Carson

   The single best thing about coming out of the closet is that nobody can
   insult you by telling you what you've just told them.
--

Brittney Griner

   pride month quote on pink background Danielle Carson

   I am a strong, Black, lesbian woman. Every single time I say it, I feel
   so much better.
--

Jason Collins

   pride month quote on pink background Danielle Carson

   I want to do the right thing and not hide anymore. I want to march for
   tolerance, acceptance and understanding. I want to take a stand and
--

George Takei

   pride month quote on pink background Danielle Carson

   We should indeed keep calm in the face of difference, and live our
   lives in a state of inclusion and wonder at the diversity of humanity.
--

Chris Colfer

   pride month quote on teal background Danielle Carson

   There’s nothing wrong with you. There’s a lot wrong with the world you
   live in.
--

Gertrude Stein

   pride month quote on pink background Danielle Carson

   You look ridiculous if you dance. You look ridiculous if you don’t
   dance. So you might as well dance.
--

Michael Cunningham

   pride month quote on pink background Danielle Carson

   I was not ladylike, nor was I manly. I was something else altogether.
   There were so many different ways to be beautiful.
--

Alice Walker

   pride month quote on pink background Danielle Carson

   No person is your friend who demands your silence or denies your right
   to grow.
--

Audre Lorde

   pride month quote on teal background Danielle Carson

   We are powerful because we have survived.
   Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
--

Zanele Muholi

   pride month quote on pink background Danielle Carson

   If I wait for someone else to validate my existence, it will mean that
   I’m shortchanging myself.
--

Hillary Clinton

   pride month quote on pink background Danielle Carson

   Gay rights are human rights.
   18

Megan Rapinoe

   pride month quote on teal background Danielle Carson

   The more I’ve been able to learn about gay rights and equal pay and
   gender equity and racial inequality, the more that it all intersects.
--

Laverne Cox

   pride month quote on pink background Danielle Carson

   We are not what other people say we are. We are who we know ourselves
   to be, and we are what we love. That’s okay.
--

Dalai Lama

   pride month quote on pink background Danielle Carson

   Love and compassion are necessities, not luxuries. Without them,
   humanity cannot survive.

LGBTQ+ Pride

   transgender pride flag waving on the blue sky

   The History of the Trans Flag
   lesbian movies
--
   lgbtq businesses

   15 LGBTQ+-Owned Businesses and Brands to Shop
   starbucks' 2023 new pride collection is here

   Starbucks' New Pride Collection Is Here
   Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
   multicolored empty credit cards on rainbow background

--
   lgbtq books

   Add These LGBTQ+ Books to Your Reading List
   gifts to celebrate pride month

   40 Great Gifts for Pride 2023
   best lgbtq movies

   45 Best LGBTQ+ Movies to Watch Now
   10 best dating apps for bisexuals and pansexuals

   10 Best Bisexual Dating Apps for Finding Love
   lgbtq pride flags

   The Symbols Behind 21 LGBTQ Flags
   Mobile phone with red hearts flying from the screen - paper</text>
</page> §
<page="en-11">
<text>
   (BUTTON) Start your 7-day FREE trial now!

Pride and Prejudice

Jane Austen

--
     * Flashcards
     * Infographic

   Pride and Prejudice is a novel by Jane Austen that was first published
   in 1813. Read the full text of Pride and Prejudice in its entirety,
   completely free.

Contents</text>
</page> §
<page="en-12">
<text>
   Log In

Pride and Prejudice – Insight Text Guide
     __________________________________________________________________

   Insight Text Guide - Pride and Prejudice

   Insight Text Guides take students into the deeper layers of meaning in
   a range of popular novels, plays, films, short-story collections and
--
       the text.

   Format [Print &amp; Digital Bundle (Code sent with book)]Clear
   Pride and Prejudice - Insight Text Guide quantity 1___
   (BUTTON) Add to cart
   ISBN: N/A Categories: All Text Guides, English Resources for
   Queensland, Insight Text Guides for Queensland, Text Guides for 2021</text>
</page> §
<page="en-13">
<text>     * Articles
     *

   Design for Pride in the Workplace
   Download PDF
   Download PDF
     * Research
     * Open access
     * Published: 04 July 2016

Design for Pride in the Workplace

     * Yichen Lu^1 &amp;
     * Virpi Roto^1
--

Background

   Pride is one of the most meaningful experiences in daily life. Many
   psychological studies emphasize self-oriented and event-based
   achievements as the main sources of pride, whereas work from
   organizational management considers pride as a collective attitude
   derived from other-focused activities and fostered by the sense of
   belongingness. Taking the interdisciplinary aspects of pride into
   account, this article addresses the challenge of how experience design
   can contribute to pride experience in the workplace.

Methods

   By cross-cutting theories from psychology and organizational
   management, this study introduces a framework of dynamic pride. The
   data includes 20 experience design cases that were specifically devoted
   to positive experiences in the context of the metal and engineering
   industry. 33 pride-related experience design goals were analyzed and
   categorized into the framework of pride.

Results

   This study introduces the social and temporal dimensions of pride
   experience at work. The pride-related experience design goals fall into
   four categories: self-focused short-term pride, self-focused long-term
   pride, other-focused short-term pride, and other-focused long-term
   pride. Accordingly, the extracted design strategies of these goals were
   mapped to each type of pride. Most of these design strategies were
   clustered in the categories of self-focused short-term pride and
   other-focused long-term pride.

Conclusions

   This study reveals the design strategies for dynamics of pride in the
   workplace varying from evoking self-achievement in individual
   interactions with tools to maintaining long-term motivation of
   self-competence development, and from highlighting one’s contribution
   in face-to-face collaborative work facilitated by interactive tools to
   fostering co-experience of organizational pride throughout social
   events.

Background
--
   specific experience in a targeted context.

   This study aims to investigate design strategies for human flourishing
   with a special focus on pride experience in the workplace, because the
   nature of pride is full of richness regarding meaningful experiences at
   work. According to the positive computing framework (Calvo and Peters
   2014, p. 87), pride covers the dimension from intra-personal pride that
   is experienced within oneself (e.g., feelings of self-achievement) to
   interpersonal pride that is experienced from interaction between
   oneself and others (e.g., perception of respect from others). From the
   perspective of time, pride can be experienced as a moment-by-moment
   positive emotion evoked by unstable events, such as success in a
   challenging task. Also, pride can be considered as a cumulative
   experience based on a long-term rational attitude, such as loyalty
   towards one’s community. In contrast to the richness of pride, current
   design research studies provide limited sources of design for pride,
   which are mainly constrained by the mere scope of product design and
   the perspective of self-achievement and personal distinct possession
   (Desmet 2012).

   Pride as a meaningful experience design goal in the workplace is worth
   investigating further. This study specifically strives to provide
   designers concrete design-for-pride strategies from two angles: the
   literature review on the multiple facets of pride and the empirical
   data on pride embodiment in design concepts. Accordingly, with a
   special focus on workplace, this study addresses two research
   questions: first, to identify what are the dimensions of pride that
   help designers to understand the design space for pride experience;
   second, to distinguish the strategies that designers have used so far
   in the design-for-pride cases. By synthesizing theoretical and
   empirical knowledge, this study proposes a multi-dimensional framework
   of design-mediated pride^Footnote 1 and the design strategies for
   evoking dynamics of pride in the workplace.

   The remaining sections of this paper are structured accordingly: first,
   a theoretical framework of pride based on literature review is
   presented and the need of knowledge on design-mediated pride is
   identified; second, 20 cases that were designed for positive experience
   at work are analyzed based on self-focus to other-focus dimensions and
   short-term to long-term timespans; third, derived from these cases, the
   design strategies for evoking pride experience at work are proposed;
   finally, the insights from these design strategies are discussed.

Literature Review

Psychological Structure of Pride

   Pride is a fundamental human emotion involving a complex
   self-evaluative process (Tracy and Robins 2004). Different from other
   “purely” basic emotions, such as the universally admired emotion of
   love or the universally reviled emotion of jealousy (Williams and
   DeSteno 2009), pride is comprised of two distinct facets. To this
   extent, Tangney (1990) referred to “alpha” pride as pride in self and
   “beta” pride as pride in behavior. Furthermore, Tracy and Robins (2004)
   distinguished between authentic pride and hubristic pride: authentic
   pride is evoked by accomplishment from successful behavior and
   positively related to genuine self-esteem and prosocial traits, whereas
   hubristic pride is more towards self-aggrandizement and positively
   related to narcissism (Tracy et al. 2014). Additionally, the two facets
   of pride differ from each other in cognitive antecedents (Tracy and
   Robins 2007b). Authentic pride is triggered more by unstable, specific,
   and controllable attributions, such as solid results due to hard work,
   whereas hubristic pride is more likely to occur from stable, global,
   and uncontrollable causes, such as feelings of superiority from “who I
   am” (Tracy and Robins 2007b). As this study focuses on designing for
   positive pride, hubristic pride is excluded in the scope of this paper.

Self-Focus Versus Other-Focus

   Both self- and other-focused pride are sources of positive emotion
   (Desmet 2012); moreover, the categories of self and social have been
   identified as wellbeing factors (Calvo and Peters 2014). Self-focused
   pride emphasizes more on interaction within oneself and response to
   oneself whereas other-focused pride accentuates interpersonal
   interaction and the influence between self and others. Most studies
   emphasize pride as a self-conscious and performance-related experience
   triggered by self-efficacy (Tracy and Robins 2007a). Besides its
   elicitation through self-achievement, pride as a fundamental social
   emotion can also be “generated by appraisals when one is responsible
   for a socially valued outcome or for being a socially valued person”
   (Mascolo and Fischer 1995, p. 66). Moral accomplishment and prosocial
   actions are associated with the feeling of pride that may motivate and
   reinforce one’s socially valued conduct (Tangney et al. 2007), such as
   caregiving (Tracy and Robins 2007b), treating others well (Michie
   2009), and positively responding to others’ emotions and needs (Leffel
   et al. 2008). Nakamura’s (2013) related work suggests that compared
   with self-oriented achievement, other-oriented prosocial action has an
   even stronger relationship to pride in both family life and work life.
   Therefore, no matter whether it is triggered by self-oriented task
   accomplishment or other-oriented altruistic activities, pride functions
   as both a “barometer” and “motivator” (McCullough et al. 2001) in
   assessing, regulating, and encouraging one’s behavior toward being
   “good, competent, and virtuous” (Haidt 2003, p. 860).

Short-Term Versus Long-Term

   Pride derived from subjective histories of success may promote
   eagerness towards new anticipatory goals (Katzenbach 2003b). This
   promotion-related eagerness may energize and enhance performance
   (Higgins et al. 2001) and thus renew the experience of pride. As such,
   pride can transition from a temporary emotional experience towards a
   durable attitude of pride. According to the timespans of user
   experience (Roto et al. 2011), a new challenging goal may evoke an
   anticipatory pride for a person with a subjective history of success
   (Higgins et al. 2001); incremental progress in problem solving may
   elicit a momentary pride; when reflecting on an overcome challenge, a
   person may feel an episodic pride in the achievement. These
   performance-related types of pride are short-term, event-specific, and
   ascribed to internal attributes, such as ability or effort (Weiner
   1985). Additionally, another kind of long-term and cognitive
   attitudinal pride exists in organizational studies, which does not rely
   on single events, but cumulative experience related to the overall
   evaluation of a target (Gouthier and Rhein 2011), such as being proud
   of one’s community.

Pride Experience at Work

   Pride is one of the most intense experiences in work life (Katzenbach
   2003b), and work itself is a source of pride (Hodson 1998). Katzenbach
   (2003b) distinguishes institution-building pride which is based on
   largely intangible value and collective interest from self-serving
   pride which is driven by power and materialism.

   Employees can take intrinsic pride in what they make, how they work,
   and whom they work with (Katzenbach 2003b). Experience of pride in
   achievement can be empathized by others in social interaction at work
   and thereby contribute to psychological empowerment and promote future
   successes (Froman 2010). Katzenbach (2003b) introduces a powerful
   “closed loop of energy” derived from pride: better performance
   contributes to business success, and recognized business success
   instills a strong feeling of pride, which fuels future better
   performance. This cycle can be repeatedly applied in organizational
   management.

   Gouthier and Rhein (2011) discern two types of organizational pride:
   one is an emotional pride triggered by successful organizational
   events, and the other is a cognitive and durable attitude of pride
   oriented from the general perception of the organization and employees’
   sense of belonging to the organization (Lea and Webley 1997). On this
   matter, the celebration of successful events, presence of a successful
   company history and culture, and successful advertising campaigns have
   been identified as activators of organizational pride (Gouthier and
   Rhein 2011).

   In summary, pride experience can be derived from self-focused
   achievement and other-focused interpersonal interaction. The richness
   of pride also lies in covering a timespan from a temporary emotion to a
   durable attitude. Pride can be intensively experienced in the
   workplace, and intrinsic pride can be evoked by organizational
   celebration and reputation. From the psychology and organizational
   management literature review, two dimensions of pride were identified
   relevant for design: social dimension from self-focused to
   other-focused and temporal dimension from short-term to long-term
   (Fig. 1).
   Fig. 1
   figure 1

   Social and temporal dimensions of pride experience at work
   Full size image

Design for Pride Experience

   Recently, design researchers have started to explore how design can
   contribute to pride experience. Desmet (2012) introduced pride among
   the 25 positive emotions in the scope of human-product interactions:
   pride may be evoked by owning a unique product, being able to use a
   complex product, achieving something a product facilitates, or
   receiving positive feedback from others concerning the product one
   owns. Based on Desmet’s work, Yoon et al. (2013) developed a tool to
   facilitate emotional granularity in design and specified that pride may
   be triggered by “one’s praiseworthy behavior surpassing internal and
   external standard, and/or one recognizes that others appreciate it”
   (ibid., p.8). Compared with the two dimensions of pride (Fig. 1), pride
   as a collective experience in social interaction (Battarbee and
   Koskinen 2005) and the long-term cumulative experience has not yet been
   fully addressed in existing experience design theories.

   One example of positive design for pride given by Desmet and Pohlmeyer
   (2013) is a designed social interactive activity in which patients with
   dementia can match record pieces in order to play music from their past
   on a turntable with others; thus, a feeling of pride may arise from
   task completion within the social interaction. Moreover, two cases of
   work tool design for meaningful experience at work (Lu and Roto 2015)
   indicate that employees may feel proud of mastering a tool and being
   part of an organization; meanwhile, customers may experience pride when
   they make a right decision on a tool purchase and present manufactured
   tools to their clients. These design examples suggest how designers
   shape the conditions that may evoke a pride experience in a specific
   context. These cases reveal different strategies of designing for
   dynamics of pride. On one hand, those theoretical sources of pride,
   such as achievement, competence, owning something special, and positive
   appraisal from self and others, are clearly embodied in these three
   cases. On the other hand, when referring to a pride experience in a
   specific context, designers seem to employ specific context-adapted
   design strategies, such as utilizing the positive relationship between
   personalized music and a patient with dementia, developing the
--

   Because the nature of design knowledge is highly applicable and
   practice-driven (Cross 2001), besides the theoretical perspective, it
   is meaningful to examine how different types of pride were designed for
   in the concrete cases. This study aims to help designers to discover
   profound and unique sources of pride experience in the specific context
   of the workplace. The design-for-pride strategies employed by the
   collected cases will be identified and analyzed against the theoretical
   dimensions of pride (Fig. 1).

Methods

--
   company personnel were available for providing information and
   comments. At least one of the authors followed these cases by arranging
   weekly meetings with the design teams and reading their design diaries.
   The students were not given special guidance for designing for pride,
   as pride was not a presumed design goal in any of the assignments.
   Rather, the students were trained to identify multiple profound
   experience goals for the targeted workplace contexts. Only after a
   majority of cases ended up pride-related experience goals, the authors
   got interested in a deeper study of pride experience at work. Hence the
   analysis of the design cases was retrospective and the final reports of
   the student teams served as the primary data source for this part of
   the research.
--
   The design case description can provide better understanding of the
   experience design in the industrial workplace context. Due to the
   limited length of this article, this section will shortly describe four
   example cases that tackled pride from different perspectives.

   The customer for the first experience design case was Kemppi, a
   manufacturer of welding machines. The task was to design a mobile
--
   welding skills with welding without the actual welding equipment, but
   rather with the help of a welding simulator game. The design students
   drew three experience goals: Pleasure (the joy of welding),
   Self-motivation (willingness to practice constantly), and Pride (about
   their skills, the results, and the welding itself). The Pleasure goal
   was tackled by gamification features; Self-motivation by sharing and
   communicating the progress; and Pride by a physical certificate after
   completing all levels of training (Fig. 2). The incremental concept was
   a mobile application as suggested in the assignment, and the radical
   concept focused on the best possible pride experience by inviting
   selected application users to showcase their real-life welding skills
   in an event similar to an art exhibition.
   Fig. 2
   figure 2

   A physical certificate was designed to enhance pride after completing
   welding training
   Full size image

--
   focusing on the maintenance services of cranes at waste-to-energy
   plants. After studying the employees at the plant, the students set
   goals for the crane maintenance service experience. Of the three goals,
   two were related to the pride experience: Worthiness (an affirmation of
   their importance as a customer) and Belongingness (a meaningful
   relationship with Konecranes employees). The radical concept is called
   Mood sphere, consisting of a light ball at the plant and an identity
--
   experience in mind, since the salesperson is the primary user of the
   simulator. The students utilized the metaphor of Q from the James Bond
   movies and set three experience goals that all were related to the
   experience of pride: Sense of directing (directing the situation by
   suggesting possible solutions), Expertise (presenting oneself as a
   professional, technical expert), and Pride (proudly representing the
   company). The design strategy to fulfill the Sense of directing goal
   was to boost the feeling of control; Expertise goal by using impressive
   technology; and Pride by drawing attention with a novel way of
   presentation. The radical solution proposed by the students was a
   simulator vehicle, similar to a Segway, with the steering joysticks
   mounted on it (Fig. 4).
--
   into a visitor space. In this case, the company already had defined
   company-wide experience goals (Roto et al. 2015) for experience
   development projects, from which the students derived four experience
   goals for this specific case. One of these was Participation for pride,
   which aims to foster a pride experience in customers by being able to
   influence the development activities at Fastems. In addition to the
   physical space design in the center of the factory activities, students
   proposed an interactive table as a collaboration platform• in the space
--
   collaboration (right)
   Full size image

Selecting Pride-Related Experience Goals

   To decide whether a case is an endeavor for evoking a pride experience
   at work, the authors analyzed the final reports of all student teams,
   and examined the description of each experience goal setting and its
   infusion into a design concept. Compared to the existing guidance on
   designing for pride, this study adopted a broader and deeper
   understanding of pride based on the literature study. Besides the
   experience goals literally labeled with “pride”, those having the
   potential to elicit pride experience were also taken into account as
   pride-related experience goals and their relevance to pride is
   indicated in Table 1. The researchers interpreted the implication of
   these goals situated in the design context rather than their original
   meaning. For example, in the Kemppi case introduced above, pride as a
   long-term experience is based on a momentary pleasurable pride and
   episodic evaluative pride in self-motivation and thus Pleasure and
   Self-motivation are grouped into pride-related experience goals. On the
   other hand, if the experience goals and their embodiment in the final
   concepts both have little connection with pride, then these goals are
   excluded in this study.
   Table 1 The experience goals with high relevance to pride
   Full size table

   In these 20 design cases, altogether 61 experience goals were
   identified and more than half (33) of them were pride-related.
   Meanwhile, only two cases out of 20 have little connection with pride:
   one stressed Discovery as an experience in taking an elevator; the
   other focused on a Trust experience evoked by the designed cover for an
   expensive ship component placed outside.

Analyzing Pride-Related Experience Goals Against Two Dimensions of Pride

   Each goal was then postulated to fall into the category either
   long-term or short-term experience. Two researchers (the authors)
   conducted the goal categorization independently, resulting to an
   inter-rater agreement of 87.88 %. Consensus was reached by discussion.
   These pride-related experience goals were also categorized along the
   self-focus or other-focus dimension. The inter-rater agreement in this
   case was 72.73 %, and the consensus was reached by discussion.

   Combining the two categorizations, each selected experience goal was
   supposed to belong to one of these four groups: self-focused short-term
   pride, self-focused long-term pride, other-focused short-term pride,
   and other-focused long-term pride. Accordingly, the design strategies
   used by the students for different types of pride were compared within
   and across categories.

Results

   According to the social dimension, 17 out of 33 pride-related
   experience goals are self-focused, whereas the remaining 16 goals are
   other-focused. Along the temporal dimension, 15 out of 33 pride-related
   experience goals are short-term, and the rest are long-term. The
   experience goals for self-focus short-term pride and other-focus
   long-term pride both take one-third of all the pride-related experience
   goals whereas other-focus short-term pride was the least designed for.

   As shown in Fig. 6, different design strategies are summarized and
   grouped along the social and temporal dimensions of pride.
   Fig. 6
   figure 6

   Design strategies sorted by two dimensions of pride
   Full size image

Design for Self-Focus Short-Term Pride

   10 out of the 33 pride-related experience goals are both self-focus and
   short-term. The design strategies are distilled into three aspects:
   enhancing self-respect, enhancing self-efficacy, and promoting one’s
   goal achievement.
--
Enhancing Self-Respect

   Three experience goals indicate that enhancing the feeling of
   self-respect is a pathway to pride experience. Thus, providing users
   with a distinctive interactive tool or workspace and strengthening
   their unique expertise may increase self-awareness of users’ own
   professionalism, which leads to self-respect enhancement. For instance,
--
Enhancing Self-Efficacy

   Five experience goals suggest that evoking the feeling of control,
   improvement, and autonomy can enable momentary pride experience. For
   example, providing an overview of all the machines’ data may enhance a
   manager’s feeling of control; boosting performances with a new
   application may enhance a worker’s feeling of competence; providing
--
Promoting One’s Goal Achievement

   Two experience goals indicate goal achievement promotion may induce
   anticipatory pride. For example, rewarding a learner’s practice of
   welding with a tangible certificate and fueling one’s intrinsic
   interest in doing something desirable may be a pathway to pride
   promotion.

Design for Self-Focus Long-Term Pride

   Seven out of the 33 pride-related experience goals are designed for
   self-focused long-term pride. They stress three aspects: fostering
   self-worth, developing one’s competence, and developing and maintaining
   one’s interest.

--
   Three goals indicate that activating one in organizational events,
   letting one work on what one is passionate about, and maintaining a
   positive self-status may foster self-worth, which would thus result in
   a durable self-focused pride. For example, in the case of Konecranes,
   the end users are often invited to a series of organizational events
   that may increase one’s awareness of their own value; making one
   passionate about one's work may result in self-actualization in a
--

   Two goals indicate that challenging one to the next level of skills and
   letting one see how they perform compared to others may produce a
   durable and self-focused pride. In the case of Kemppi, the app provides
   gamification elements and makes the long-term skill improvement
   visible, which may in turn keep learners practicing through enjoyment
   of welding and competition with others.
--

   Two goals from two cases indicate that motivating users with rewards as
   in games and keeping users’ inspirations in a series of organizational
   events may result in self-focus long-term pride. In the case of Kemppi,
   the app keeps an update of unlocked features to encourage learners onto
   the next practice level; a company can hold competitions, workshops,
   and seminars to maintain one’s interest and ambition and can thus
   accumulate one’s long-term pride.

Design for Other-Focus Short-Term Pride

   Five out of the 33 pride-related experience goals are both other-focus
   and short-term. They emphasize two aspects: enabling one’s influence in
   social interaction and evoking a sense of belongingness to an
   organization.
--

   Two experience goals indicate that fueling one’s leadership in social
   interaction and revealing one’s influence on decision-making may result
   in other-focused short-term pride. In the Rolls–Royces case introduced
   above, the special vehicle may guide others’ attention and provide a
   salesperson with a sense of directing, thus facilitate the
   salesperson’s leadership in interacting with the audience. Moreover,
   enabling the customers’ involvement and hence developing awareness of
   their impact on decision-making may build pride in customers through
   social interaction.

Evoking a Sense of Belongingness to an Organization
--
   Three experience goals indicate that facilitating a connection with
   others, sharing happy moments, and stimulating inspiration and
   appreciation from others may lead to the feeling of other-focus
   short-term pride. For example, the output of an interactive system at
   the entrance of the office may evoke employees’ belongingness to a
   company by worldwide company information dissemination and
   entertainment activity arrangement. Besides this, organizational events
   may have the similar impact on stakeholder engagement by stimulating
   their inspiration.

Design for Other-focus Long-Term Pride

   11 out of the 33 experience goals are designed for other-focus
   long-term pride. These goals focus on two main aspects: fostering a
   sense of belonging to an organization and revealing long-term impacts
   of one’s contribution to others.

--
   interaction in organizational events, nurturing organizational
   heritage, and fostering immediate sharing of success may instill a
   sense of belonging to an organization and thus lead to other-focus
   long-term pride. For example, human-to-human interaction at work
   provides the feeling of camaraderie, the appreciation between each
   other, and the historical success of a company, which all contribute to
   collective pride towards an organization.

Revealing the Long-term Impact of One’s Contribution to Others

   Five experience goals indicate that other-focused long-term pride can
   be produced by providing transparency on one's idea development, making
   the positive consequences of one's contributions visible to others, and
   making one’s positive progress visible to others. For example, the
   visualization of a process in which one’s work is further developed and
   implemented by others, and the positive confirmation of one’s critical
   decisions for an organization from a long-term perspective may increase
   one’s stable pride evoked by others.

Discussion

   Workplace as a social space provides a rich context for stimulation,
   development, and maintenance of the dynamics of pride. Design for pride
   in the workplace is a powerful, yet little utilized approach to keeping
   the closed loop of energy up for a successful business. By
   cross-cutting theories from psychology and organizational management,
   this study first introduces the social and temporal dimensions of
   pride. Based on the theoretical framework of pride, the empirical data
   from 20 experience design cases reveals contextualized and concrete
   design strategies for the dynamics of pride experience at work. The
   design implication drawn from these design strategies is given as
   follows.

   The design strategies for self-focused short-term pride is in line with
   the sources of pride in human-production interaction (Desmet 2012):
   self-efficacy enhancement is related to “using the tool induces pride
   of task performance”; self-respect enhancements matches with “owning
   the tool induces pride of one’s expertise”; and goal achievement
   promotion fits with “the tool enables results that induces pride of
   one’s task performance”. To evoke such pride much depends on a
   well-designed momentary interaction between tool and user, for example,
   by measuring and visualizing incremental performance improvement in
   time.

   When moving to a self-focus long-term pride, the design strategies
   adapt to the long-term effect, such as motivation maintenance,
   competence development and fostering self-worth. The key to designing
   for this type of pride is to explore and personalize the individual
   intrinsic meaning and to hold it longer, which is in line with positive
   design for personal significance, i.e., not focusing on the momentary
   effect, but on one’s personal goals and aspirations (Desmet and
   Pohlmeyer 2013).

   Besides the facilitation of work performance enhancement, interactive
   tools can also be designed for other-focused short-term pride to assist
   users’ leadership or involvement in momentary social interaction, such
   as sharing one’s ideas by instant prototyping for collaborative
   discussion. Additionally, seeing others’ responses to one’s
   contribution may happen in organizational events, such as competitions,
   workshops, and seminars. These kinds of events may strengthen one’s
   connection with others, trigger social interaction, and stimulate each
   other’s creativity, in which co-experience of pride can be evoked
   within an organization.

   Other-focused long-term pride is highly related to entrepreneurial
   spirit and loyalty. Company leaders aim to instill such pride into
   their employees and customers. The implications from organizational
   management can enter into design strategy by fostering a sense of
   belonging to an organization through activities (Gouthier and Rhein
   2011). Belongingness is an other-oriented communion, which is about
   sharing common social identity and strengthening interpersonal
   connectedness (Rosso et al. 2010). Thus, sharing a positive identity is
   an important source of the other-focused pride, especially in
   organizational work contexts. Meanwhile, the visualization of progress
   and metrics can enable employees to track their own and others’ work
   (Katzenbach 2003b), and thereby reveal the long-term impact of one’s
   contribution to others, which is also a key design strategy for
   other-focused pride.

   These four types of pride apparently connect to each other and work
   together. For example, one’s pride derived from the pleasure of
   interaction with a work tool may bring out both enjoyment and
   self-enhancement at work. The pleasurable pride may serve as an
   intrinsic motivator for long-term good work performance. The
   visualization of one’s positive work results and progress may evoke
   others’ appreciation. In the long run, the collective impacts of
   everyone’s incremental contribution accumulate and sustain
   organizational success and thereby lead to a durable pride towards
   one’s organization.

   In conclusion, this paper identifies two main trends in designing for
   pride experience in the workplace: designers can uplift their vision
   from self-focused and achievement-oriented interaction with a tool
   towards fostering engagement-oriented interaction with people, and from
   event-based emotional pride in momentary interaction towards a
   long-term organizational attitude of pride. Meanwhile, the role of a
   tool becomes that of an interactive facilitator for co-experience of
   pride in activities rather than the passive means of task completion.

   This study opens the discussion that experience design researchers need
   to study external knowledge in order to broaden the understanding of
--
   between theories and empirical data were born with considerable
   validity which lies in the traceable evidences from available knowledge
   and concrete design cases. On the other hand, however, the predefined
   four-type-pride framework might limit the variety of the strategies,
   because there might be valuable special strategies that could be
   excluded by the scope of this framework. This limitation reflects that
   it could be a danger if designers overly rely on the available
--
   concepts. Moreover, a 2-month project can hardly include a long-term
   evaluation of design results.

   From the finding validity perspective, the pride experience design
   strategies were presented as backup tools in the latest course but
   without guiding the students to use them. Compared with previous cases,
   pride was defined more towards durable pride and organizational pride
   in the recent cases. More importantly, inspired by these cases, the
   companies have gradually changed their mindset from focusing on
   usability towards prioritizing experience, and have recognized pride
   can be designed from not only interaction quality in task but also
   organizational impact. This impact was manifested in the industrial
   seminar when two companies presented and referred the student cases as
   their new path to experience design innovation. At least one
   design-for-pride case was implemented entirely from the students’
   concepts, and got positive feedback from the company’s clients.

   Future studies will focus on at least three directions. First, it is
   worth adding case diversity to the data collection: cases from
   different programs in different research institutes or companies are
   needed for both qualitative and quantitative studies to assess whether
   the two dimensions of design for pride can be applied to a large number
   of design cases. Second, there is a definite need to trace the real
   implementation of certain strategies in the client companies to
   identify the long-term impact on both workers’ subjective wellbeing and
   business development. Third, it is also meaningful to observe designing
   for pride in other domains and to identify what kind of strategies are
   common patterns and to what degree the differences of contexts lead to
   the specificity of design strategies.

--
     * Froman L. Positive psychology in the workplace. J Adult Dev.
       2010;17(2):59–69.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Gouthier MH, Rhein M. Organizational pride and its positive effects
       on employee behavior. J Serv Manag. 2011;22(5):633–49.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Haidt J. The moral emotions. In: Davidson RJ, Scherer KR, Goldsmith
--
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Higgins ET, Friedman RS, Harlow RE, Idson LC, Ayduk ON, Taylor A.
       Achievement orientations from subjective histories of success:
       promotion pride versus prevention pride. Eur J Soc Psychol.
       2001;31(1):3–23.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Hodson R. Pride in task completion and organizational citizenship
       behaviour: evidence from the ethnographic literature. Work Stress.
       1998;12(4):307–21.
       Article  Google Scholar
--
       H, Turunen M. Defining user experience goals to guide the design of
       industrial systems. Behaviour Inform Technol. 2015
       (ahead-of-print).
     * Katzenbach J. Pride: a strategic asset. Strategy Leadersh.
       2003a;31(5):34–8.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Katzenbach J. Why pride matters more than money: the power of the
       world’s greatest motivational force. New York City: Crown Business;
       2003b.
       Google Scholar
     * Lea SEG, Webley P. Pride in economic psychology. J Econ Psychol.
       1997;18(2–3):323–40.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Leffel GM, Fritz ME, Stephens MR. Who cares? generativity and the
--
       design framework for work tools. J Eng Design. 2015
       (ahead-of-print).
     * Mascolo MF, Fischer KW. Developmental transformations in appraisals
       for pride, shame, and guilt. In: Tangney JP, Fischer KW, editors.
       Self-conscious emotions: the psychology of shame, guilt,
       embarrassment, and pride, xvii. New York: Guilford Press; 1995. pp
       64–113.
     * McCullough ME, Kirkpatrick S, Emmons RA, Larson D. Is gratitude a
       moral affect? Psychol Bull. 2001;127:249–66.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
     * Michie S. Pride and gratitude how positive emotions influence the
       prosocial behaviors of organizational leaders. J Leadersh Organ
       Stud. 2009;15(4):393–403.
     * Nakamura J. Pride and the experience of meaning in daily life. J
       Posit Psychol. 2013;8(6):555–67.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Pohlmeyer AE. Design for happiness. Interfaces. 2012;92:8–11.
--
       a theoretical model. Psychol Inq. 2004;15:103–25.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Tracy JL, Robins RW. Emerging insights into the nature and function
       of pride. Curr Dir Psychol Sci. 2007a;16(3):147–50.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Tracy JL, Robins RW. The psychological structure of pride: a tale
       of two facets. J Pers Soc Psychol. 2007b;92:506–25.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
     * Weiner B. An attributional theory of achievement motivation and
       emotion. Psychol Rev. 1985;92(4):548.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
     * Williams LA, DeSteno D. Pride adaptive social emotion or seventh
       sin? Psychol Sci. 2009;20(3):284–8.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
     * Yoon J, Desmet PMA, Pohlmeyer AE. Embodied typology of positive
--

Cite this article

   Lu, Y., Roto, V. Design for Pride in the Workplace. Psych Well-Being 6,
   6 (2016). https://doi.org/10.1186/s13612-016-0041-7

   Download citation
--
Keywords

     * Experience design
     * Pride experience
     * Design strategy
     * Self-focus
     * Other-focus</text>
</page> §
<page="en-14">
<text>   #BYU Speeches » Pride Topic Feed

   fbpx

--

   Topic

Pride
     __________________________________________________________________

   Ryan Gabriel, Assistant Professor of Sociology Ryan Gabriel, Assistant
--

   WIlford W. Andersen WIlford W. Andersen

The Pride Cycle

   Wilford W. Andersen | November 7, 2017
   Watch Video Watch Video Listen to Audio Listen to Audio Read Text Read
--
   MP3 PDF
   Recognize that God is the source of every blessing you receive.
   Treasure His counsel. Your gratitude will guide your escape from the
   pride cycle.
   devotional 2017

   Carl B. Cook - Presidency of the Seventy Carl B. Cook - Presidency of
--
   Watch Video Watch Video Listen to Audio Listen to Audio Read Text Read
   Text Download Options Download Options
   MP3 PDF
   By learning to overcome pride and submit our will to God's, we let go
   of the natural man and become free to discover our true, eternal
   selves.
   devotional 2017

   Kim B. Clark Kim B. Clark

“Are Ye Stripped of Pride?”

   Kim B. Clark | September 29, 2009
   Watch Video Watch Video Listen to Audio Listen to Audio Read Text Read
   Text Download Options Download Options
   MP3 PDF
   Beware the dangerous universal sin of pride that can come in adversity
   or prosperity. Our heart must be full of the Spirit and not set upon
   worldly things.
   devotional 2009

   David Day David Day

Lessons of Pride and Glory from the Doctrine and Covenants

   David Day | June 9, 2009
   Watch Video Watch Video Listen to Audio Listen to Audio Read Text Read
--

   Theodore M. Burton Theodore M. Burton

A Disease Called Pride

   Theodore M. Burton | October 13, 1970
   Video Unavailable Video Unavailable Listen to Audio Listen to Audio</text>
</page> §
<page="en-15">
<text>
   itemscope itemtype="http://bib.schema.org/Book"

Pride and Prejudice

   Pride and Prejudice
    1. Chapter I
    2. Chapter II
    3. Chapter III
--
       his other daughters, Mrs. Bennet has just done the same thing by
       favoring Jane and Lydia.
       — Sarah, Owl Eyes Staff
    3. Mr. Bennet is being prideful but not as obviously as Mrs. Bennet.
       His refusal to take Mrs. Bennet seriously suggests that he feels he
       is above (or too good for) his wife’s concerns. When she urges him
       to visit Mr. Bingley for the sake of his daughters, he tells her
--
       quite scandalous—and jokes that Mr. Bingley would probably prefer
       Mrs. Bennet.
       — Sarah, Owl Eyes Staff
    4. The themes of pride and prejudice have already begun to take shape
       in Mrs. Bennet’s character by the end of the first chapter. For
       example, she exhibits prideful behavior when she implies that her
       daughters are more deserving of Mr. Bingley than other eligible
       daughters in the neighborhood. She is also being prejudicial
       because she believes other girls, such as the Lucases, are inferior
--
       — Stephen Holliday
   17. The initial comic exchange that arises between Mr. and Mrs. Bennet
       provides us with an early allusion to the themes that directly
       relate to the novel’s title. While “pride” and “prejudice”
       certainly figure prominently (and in more complex ways) later on,
       Mr. Bennet is here shown to be detached and prideful while Mrs.
       Bennet is completely prejudicial.
       — Jamie Wheeler
   18. This humorous, tongue-in-cheek beginning sets the tone for the</text>
</page> §
<page="en-16">
<text>     * Contact Us
     * Back to top ↑

Pride and Prejudice by Jane Austen

   It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession
   of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife. However little known the
--
   neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds of the
   Mansion House with large manicured lawn

   Home - Books - Pride and Prejudice by Jane Austen
   This page contains affiliate links. As Amazon Associates we earn from
   qualifying purchases.

--
    7. Page 7
    8. Page 8

   Pride and Prejudice is an 1813 novel of manners by Jane Austen. The
   novel follows the character development of Elizabeth Bennet, the
   protagonist of the book, who learns about the repercussions of hasty
   judgments and comes to appreciate the difference between superficial
--

   “I do not believe a word of it, my dear. If he had been so very
   agreeable, he would have talked to Mrs. Long. But I can guess how it
   was; everybody says that he is eat up with pride, and I dare say he had
   heard somehow that Mrs. Long does not keep a carriage, and had come to
   the ball in a hack chaise.”

--

   “I believe, ma’am, I may safely promise you NEVER to dance with him.”

   “His pride,” said Miss Lucas, “does not offend ME so much as pride
   often does, because there is an excuse for it. One cannot wonder that
   so very fine a young man, with family, fortune, everything in his
   favour, should think highly of himself. If I may so express it, he has
   a RIGHT to be proud.”

   “That is very true,” replied Elizabeth, “and I could easily forgive HIS
   pride, if he had not mortified MINE.”

   “Pride,” observed Mary, who piqued herself upon the solidity of her
   reflections, “is a very common failing, I believe. By all that I have
   ever read, I am convinced that it is very common indeed; that human
   nature is particularly prone to it, and that there are very few of us
   who do not cherish a feeling of self-complacency on the score of some
   quality or other, real or imaginary. Vanity and pride are different
   things, though the words are often used synonymously. A person may be
   proud without being vain. Pride relates more to our opinion of
   ourselves, vanity to what we would have others think of us.”

   “If I were as rich as Mr. Darcy,” cried a young Lucas, who came with
--

   When dinner was over, she returned directly to Jane, and Miss Bingley
   began abusing her as soon as she was out of the room. Her manners were
   pronounced to be very bad indeed, a mixture of pride and impertinence;
   she had no conversation, no style, no beauty. Mrs. Hurst thought the
   same, and added:</text>
</page> §
<page="en-17">
<text>
   [ ] Toggle the table of contents

Pride and Prejudice

   [ ] 72 languages
     * Afrikaans
--

   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
   1813 novel by Jane Austen
   This article is about the novel. For other uses, see Pride and
   Prejudice (disambiguation).

   CAPTION: Pride and Prejudice

   [220px-PrideAndPrejudiceTitlePage.jpg]
   Title page of the first edition, 1813
   Author Jane Austen
   Working title First Impressions
--
   LC Class PR4034 .P7
   Preceded by Sense and Sensibility
   Followed by Mansfield Park
   Text Pride and Prejudice at Wikisource
   LibriVox recording by Karen Savage.

   Pride and Prejudice is the second novel by English author Jane Austen,
   published in 1813. A novel of manners, it follows the character
   development of Elizabeth Bennet, the protagonist of the book, who
   learns about the repercussions of hasty judgments and comes to
--
   of the daughters marry well to support the others, which is a
   motivation that drives the plot.

   Pride and Prejudice has consistently appeared near the top of lists of
   "most-loved books" among literary scholars and the reading public. It
   has become one of the most popular novels in English literature, with
   over 20 million copies sold, and has inspired many derivatives in
   modern literature.^[1]^[2] For more than a century, dramatic
   adaptations, reprints, unofficial sequels, films, and TV versions of
   Pride and Prejudice have portrayed the memorable characters and themes
   of the novel, reaching mass audiences.^[3]

Plot summary[edit]

   [220px-PrideandPrejudiceCH3.jpg] Mr Darcy says Elizabeth is "not
   handsome enough to tempt him" to dance. (Artist: C.E. Brock, 1895)

   In the early 19th century, the Bennet family live at their Longbourn
--
   heartbroken Jane visits her Aunt and Uncle Gardiner in London to raise
   her spirits, while Elizabeth's hatred for Mr Darcy grows as she
   suspects he was responsible for Mr Bingley's departure.
   [220px-Pickering_-_Greatbatch_-_Jane_Austen_-_Pride_and_Prejudice_-_She
   _then_told_him_what_Mr._Darcy_had_voluntarily_done_for_Lydia.jpg]
   Elizabeth tells her father that Darcy was responsible for uniting Lydia
   and Wickham, in one of the two earliest illustrations of Pride and
   Prejudice.^[4] The clothing styles reflect the time the illustration
   was engraved (the 1830s), not the time in which the novel was written
   or set.
--

Characters[edit]

   [220px-Scenes_from_Pride_and_Prejudice.png] A 21st century card
   containing scenes from Pride and Prejudice, by C. E. Brock (c. 1885)
   Character genealogy
                            Mr Hurst
                            Mrs Louisa Hurst
--
       tenacious and prejudiced first impressions. As the story
       progresses, so does her relationship with Mr Darcy. The course of
       Elizabeth and Darcy's relationship is ultimately decided when Darcy
       overcomes his pride, and Elizabeth overcomes her prejudice, leading
       them both to surrender to their love for each other.
     * Mr Fitzwilliam Darcy – Mr Bingley's friend and the wealthy owner of
       the family estate of Pemberley in Derbyshire, rumoured to be worth
       at least £10,000 a year. While he is handsome, tall, and
       intelligent, Darcy lacks ease and social graces, and so others
       frequently mistake his initially haughty reserve as proof of
       excessive pride. A new visitor to the Meryton setting of the novel,
       he is ultimately Elizabeth Bennet's love interest. Though he
       appears to be proud and is largely disliked by people for this
       reason, his servants vouch for his kindness and decency.
--
       Fitzwilliam, as a younger son, he cannot marry without thought to
       his prospective bride's dowry.

   Diagram showing relationships among the principal characters of Pride
   and Prejudice

Major themes[edit]

   Many critics take the title as the start when analysing the themes of
   Pride and Prejudice but Robert Fox cautions against reading too much
   into the title (which was initially First Impressions), because
   commercial factors may have played a role in its selection. "After the
   success of Sense and Sensibility, nothing would have seemed more
--
   the formula of antithesis and alliteration for the title.

   The qualities of the title are not exclusively assigned to one or the
   other of the protagonists; both Elizabeth and Darcy display pride and
   prejudice."^[9] The phrase "pride and prejudice" had been used over the
   preceding two centuries by Joseph Hall, Jeremy Taylor, Joseph Addison
   and Samuel Johnson.^[10]^[11] Austen probably took her title from a
   passage in Fanny Burney's Cecilia (1782), a popular novel she is known
   to have admired:

     "The whole of this unfortunate business," said Dr Lyster, "has been
     the result of PRIDE and PREJUDICE. […] if to PRIDE and PREJUDICE you
     owe your miseries, so wonderfully is good and evil balanced, that to
     PRIDE and PREJUDICE you will also owe their termination."^[11]^[12]
     (capitalisation as in the original)

   A theme in much of Austen's work is the importance of environment and
--
   Social standing and wealth are not necessarily advantages in her world
   and a further theme common to Austen's work is ineffectual parents.

   In Pride and Prejudice, the failure of Mr and Mrs Bennet as parents is
   blamed for Lydia's lack of moral judgment. Darcy has been taught to be
   principled and scrupulously honourable but he is also proud and
   overbearing.^[13] Kitty, rescued from Lydia's bad influence and
--
   The American novelist Anna Quindlen observed in an introduction to an
   edition of Austen's novel in 1995:

     Pride and Prejudice is also about that thing that all great novels
     consider, the search for self. And it is the first great novel that
     teaches us this search is as surely undertaken in the drawing room
     making small talk as in the pursuit of a great white whale or the
--

   [220px-LadyCatherine_%26_Elisabeth.jpg] Lady Catherine and Elizabeth by
   C. E. Brock,
   1895[220px-Pickering_-_Greatbatch_-_Jane_Austen_-_Pride_and_Prejudice_-
   _This_is_not_to_be_borne%2C_Miss_Bennet.jpg] Lady Catherine confronts
   Elizabeth about Darcy, on the title page of the first illustrated
   edition. This is the other of the first two illustrations of the novel.

   Austen might be known now for her "romances" but the marriages in her
   novels engage with economics and class distinction. Pride and Prejudice
   is hardly the exception.

   When Darcy proposes to Elizabeth, he cites their economic and social
--
   Elizabeth come to recognise their faults and work to correct them.
   Elizabeth meditates on her own mistakes thoroughly in chapter 36:

     "How despicably have I acted!" she cried; "I, who have prided myself
     on my discernment! I, who have valued myself on my abilities! who
     have often disdained the generous candour of my sister, and
     gratified my vanity in useless or blameable distrust. How
--

Style[edit]

   Pride and Prejudice, like most of Austen's works, employs the narrative
   technique of free indirect speech, which has been defined as "the free
   representation of a character's speech, by which one means, not words
   actually spoken by a character, but the words that typify the
--
   [lossy-page1-260px-Letter_from_Jane_Austen_to_her_sister_Cassandra%2C_1
   799_June_11._Page_2_%28NLA%29.tiff.jpg] Page 2 of a letter from Jane
   Austen to her sister Cassandra (11 June 1799) in which she first
   mentions Pride and Prejudice, using its working title First
   Impressions. (NLA)

   Austen began writing the novel after staying at Goodnestone Park in
--
   to conjecture. From the large number of letters in the final novel, it
   is assumed that First Impressions was an epistolary novel.^[36]

   She later renamed the story Pride and Prejudice around 1811/1812, when
   she sold the rights to publish the manuscript to Thomas Egerton for
   £110^[37] (equivalent to £7,800 in 2021). In renaming the novel, Austen
   probably had in mind the "sufferings and oppositions" summarised in the
   final chapter of Fanny Burney's Cecilia, called "Pride and Prejudice",
   where the phrase appears three times in block capitals.^[13]

   It is possible that the novel's original title was altered to avoid
   confusion with other works. In the years between the completion of
   First Impressions and its revision into Pride and Prejudice, two other
   works had been published under that name: a novel by Margaret Holford
   and a comedy by Horace Smith.^[34]

Publication history[edit]

   [220px-Brock_Pride_and_Prejudice.jpg] Title page of a 1907 edition
   illustrated by C. E. Brock

   Austen sold the copyright for the novel to Thomas Egerton from the
--
   subsequently made around £450 from just the first two editions of the
   book.^[39]

   Egerton published the first edition of Pride and Prejudice in three
   hardcover volumes on 28 January 1813.^[40] It was advertised in The
   Morning Chronicle, priced at 18s.^[33] Favourable reviews saw this
   edition sold out, with a second edition published in October that year.
--

   Foreign language translations first appeared in 1813 in French;
   subsequent translations were published in German, Danish, and
   Swedish.^[41] Pride and Prejudice was first published in the United
   States in August 1832 as Elizabeth Bennet or, Pride and Prejudice.^[38]
   The novel was also included in Richard Bentley's Standard Novel series
   in 1833. R. W. Chapman's scholarly edition of Pride and Prejudice,
   first published in 1923, has become the standard edition on which many
   modern published versions of the novel are based.^[38]

   The novel was originally published anonymously, as were all of Austen's
   novels. However, whereas her first published novel, Sense and
   Sensibility was presented as being written "by a Lady," Pride and
   Prejudice was attributed to "the Author of Sense and Sensibility". This
   began to consolidate a conception of Austen as an author, albeit
   anonymously. Her subsequent novels were similarly attributed to the
--
   months following publication.^[39] Anne Isabella Milbanke, later to be
   the wife of Lord Byron, called it "the fashionable novel".^[39] Noted
   critic and reviewer George Henry Lewes declared that he "would rather
   have written Pride and Prejudice, or Tom Jones, than any of the
   Waverley Novels".^[42]

   Charlotte Brontë, however, in a letter to Lewes, wrote that Pride and
   Prejudice was a disappointment, "a carefully fenced, highly cultivated
   garden, with neat borders and delicate flowers; but ... no open
   country, no fresh air, no blue hill, no bonny beck".^[42]^[43]

   Austen for her part thought the "playfulness and epigrammaticism" of
   Pride and Prejudice was excessive, complaining in a letter to her
   sister Cassandra in 1813 that the novel lacked "shade" and should have
   had a chapter "of solemn specious nonsense, about something unconnected
   with the story; an essay on writing, a critique on Walter Scott or the
   history of Buonaparté".^[44]

   Walter Scott wrote in his journal, "Read again and for the third time
   at least, Miss Austen's very finely written novel of Pride and
   Prejudice."^[45]

20th century[edit]
--

   The American scholar Claudia L. Johnson defended the novel from the
   criticism that it has an unrealistic fairy-tale quality.^[46] One
   critic, Mary Poovey, wrote that the "romantic conclusion" of Pride and
   Prejudice is an attempt to hedge the conflict between the
   "individualistic perspective inherent in the bourgeois value system and
   the authoritarian hierarchy retained from traditional, paternalistic
--
   wrote the "outrageous unconventionality" of Elizabeth Bennet was in
   Austen's own time very daring, especially given the strict censorship
   that was imposed in Britain by the Prime Minister, William Pitt, in the
   1790s when Austen wrote Pride and Prejudice.^[46]

21st century[edit]

     * In 2003 the BBC conducted a poll for the "UK's Best-Loved Book" in
       which Pride and Prejudice came second, behind The Lord of the
       Rings.^[47]
     * In a 2008 survey of more than 15,000 Australian readers, Pride and
       Prejudice came first in a list of the 101 best books ever
       written.^[48]
     * The 200th anniversary of Pride and Prejudice on 28 January 2013 was
       celebrated around the globe by media networks such as the
       Huffington Post, The New York Times, and The Daily Telegraph, among
       others.^[49]^[50]^[51]^[52]^[53]^[54]^[55]
--

Film, television and theatre[edit]

   See also: Jane Austen in popular culture – Pride and Prejudice

   Numerous screen adaptations have contributed in popularising Pride and
   Prejudice.^[56]

   The first television adaptation of the novel, written by Michael Barry,
--
   Hermione Gingold.^[59] In 1995, a musical concept album was written by
   Bernard J. Taylor, with Claire Moore in the role of Elizabeth Bennet
   and Peter Karrie in the role of Mr Darcy.^[60] A new stage production,
   Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice, The New Musical, was presented in
   concert on 21 October 2008 in Rochester, New York, with Colin Donnell
   as Darcy.^[61] The Swedish composer Daniel Nelson based his 2011 opera
   Stolthet och fördom on Pride and Prejudice.^[62] Works inspired by the
   book include Bride and Prejudice and Trishna (1985 Hindi TV series).

   The Lizzie Bennet Diaries – which premiered on a dedicated YouTube
--
   Vale.^[69]

   Fire Island is a movie written by Joel Kim Booster that reimagines
   Pride and Prejudice as a gay drama set on the quintessential gay
   vacation destination of Fire Island. Booster describes the movie "as an
   unapologetic and modern twist on Jane Austen's Pride and
   Prejudice."^[70] The movie was released in June 2022 and features a
   main cast of Asian-American actors.

Literature[edit]

   Main article: List of literary adaptations of Pride and Prejudice

   The novel has inspired a number of other works that are not direct
   adaptations. Books inspired by Pride and Prejudice include the
   following:
     * Mr Darcy's Daughters and The Exploits and Adventures of Miss
       Alethea Darcy by Elizabeth Aston
     * Darcy's Story (a best seller) and Dialogue with Darcy by Janet
       Aylmer
     * Pemberley: Or Pride and Prejudice Continued and An Unequal
       Marriage: Or Pride and Prejudice Twenty Years Later by Emma Tennant
     * The Book of Ruth by Helen Baker
     * Jane Austen Ruined My Life and Mr Darcy Broke My Heart by Beth
       Pattillo
     * Precipitation – A Continuation of Miss Jane Austen's Pride and
       Prejudice by Helen Baker
     * Searching for Pemberley by Mary Simonsen
     * Mr Darcy Takes a Wife and its sequel Darcy &amp; Elizabeth: Nights and
       Days at Pemberley by Linda Berdoll

   In Gwyn Cready's comedic romance novel, Seducing Mr Darcy, the heroine
   lands in Pride and Prejudice by way of magic massage, has a fling with
   Darcy and unknowingly changes the rest of the story.

   Abigail Reynolds is the author of seven Regency-set variations on Pride
   and Prejudice. Her Pemberley Variations series includes Mr Darcy's
   Obsession, To Conquer Mr Darcy, What Would Mr Darcy Do and Mr
   Fitzwilliam Darcy: The Last Man in the World. Her modern adaptation,
   The Man Who Loved Pride and Prejudice, is set on Cape Cod.^[71]

   Bella Breen is the author of nine variations on Pride and Prejudice.
   Pride and Prejudice and Poison, Four Months to Wed, Forced to Marry and
   The Rescue of Elizabeth Bennet.^[72]

   Helen Fielding's 1996 novel Bridget Jones's Diary is also based on
   Pride and Prejudice; the feature film of Fielding's work, released in
   2001, stars Colin Firth, who had played Mr Darcy in the successful
   1990s TV adaptation.

   In March 2009, Seth Grahame-Smith's Pride and Prejudice and Zombies
   takes Austen's work and mashes it up with zombie hordes, cannibalism,
   ninja and ultraviolent mayhem.^[73] In March 2010, Quirk Books
   published a prequel by Steve Hockensmith that deals with Elizabeth
   Bennet's early days as a zombie hunter, Pride and Prejudice and
   Zombies: Dawn of the Dreadfuls.^[74] The 2016 film of Grahame-Smith's
   adaptation was released starring Lily James, Sam Riley and Matt Smith.

   In 2011, author Mitzi Szereto expanded on the novel in Pride and
   Prejudice: Hidden Lusts, a historical sex parody that parallels the
   original plot and writing style of Jane Austen.

--
   2010 with artwork by Hugo Petrus.

   Pamela Aidan is the author of a trilogy of books telling the story of
   Pride and Prejudice from Mr Darcy's point of view: Fitzwilliam Darcy,
   Gentleman. The books are An Assembly Such as This,^[76] Duty and
   Desire^[77] and These Three Remain.^[78]

--
   Comes to Pemberley, which is a murder mystery set six years after
   Elizabeth and Darcy's marriage.^[79]

   Sandra Lerner's sequel to Pride and Prejudice, Second Impressions,
   develops the story and imagined what might have happened to the
   original novel's characters. It is written in the style of Austen after
   extensive research into the period and language and published in 2011
   under the pen name of Ava Farmer.^[80]

   Jo Baker's bestselling 2013 novel Longbourn imagines the lives of the
   servants of Pride and Prejudice.^[81] A cinematic adaptation of
   Longbourn was due to start filming in late 2018, directed by Sharon
   Maguire, who also directed Bridget Jones's Diary and Bridget Jones's
   Baby, screenplay by Jessica Swale, produced by Random House Films and
--
   Sophie Thompson. It was first broadcast in May 2014; and again on Radio
   4 Extra in September 2018.^[83]

   In the novel Eligible, Curtis Sittenfeld sets the characters of Pride
   and Prejudice in modern-day Cincinnati, where the Bennet parents,
   erstwhile Cincinnati social climbers, have fallen on hard times.
   Elizabeth, a successful and independent New York journalist, and her
--
   medical school classmate, Fitzwilliam Darcy, a cynical
   neurosurgeon.^[84]^[85]

   Pride and Prejudice has also inspired works of scientific writing. In
   2010, scientists named a pheromone identified in male mouse urine
   darcin,^[86] after Mr Darcy, because it strongly attracted females. In
   2016, a scientific paper published in the Journal of Inherited
--
   sons, and why some of the Bennet sisters are so silly.^[87]

   In summer 2014, Udon Entertainment's Manga Classics line published a
   manga adaptation of Pride and Prejudice.^[88]

References[edit]

    1. ^ "Monstersandcritics.com". Monstersandcritics.com. 7 May 2009.
       Archived from the original on 26 October 2009. Retrieved 27 January
       2012.
    2. ^ "Austen power: 200 years of Pride and Prejudice". The
       Independent. 19 January 2013. Retrieved 7 December 2018.
    3. ^ Looser, Devoney (2017). The Making of Jane Austen. Baltimore, MD:
       Johns Hopkins University Press. p. 76. ISBN 978-1421422824.
--
       Austen: 'Rape' and 'Love' as (Feminist) Social Realism and
       Romance". Women. 14 (2): 144. doi:10.1080/09574040310107.
       S2CID 170233564.
    6. ^ No love for Lydia: The fate of desire in Pride and Prejudice
       Allen DW 1985.
    7. ^ Austen, Jane (5 August 2010). Pride and Prejudice. Oxford
       University Press. p. 2. ISBN 978-0-19-278986-0.
    8. ^ Rothman, Joshua (7 February 2013). "On Charlotte Lucas's Choice".
       The New Yorker. Retrieved 13 August 2020.
    9. ^ Fox, Robert C. (September 1962). "Elizabeth Bennet: Prejudice or
       Vanity?". Nineteenth-Century Fiction. 17 (2): 185–187.
       doi:10.2307/2932520. JSTOR 2932520.
   10. ^ "pride, n.^1". Oxford English Dictionary (Online ed.). Oxford
       University Press. (Subscription or participating institution
       membership required.)
   11. ^ ^a ^b Dexter, Gary (10 August 2008). "How Pride And Prejudice got
       its name". The Daily Telegraph. Archived from the original on 11
       January 2022. Retrieved 27 April 2015.
   12. ^ Burney, Fanny (1782). Cecilia: Or, Memoirs of an Heiress. T.
       Payne and son and T. Cadell. pp. 379–380.
   13. ^ ^a ^b ^c Pinion, F B (1973). A Jane Austen. Companion. Macmillan.
       ISBN 978-0-333-12489-5.
   14. ^ Austen, Jane. Pride and Prejudice, Ch 61.
   15. ^ Quindlen, Anna (1995). Introduction. Pride and Prejudice. By
       Austen, Jane. New York: Modern Library. p. vii.
       ISBN 978-0-679-60168-5.
   16. ^ Austen, Jane. Pride and Prejudice, Ch 1.
   17. ^ Gao, Haiyan (February 2013). "Jane Austen's Ideal Man in Pride
       and Prejudice". Theory and Practice in Language Studies. 3 (2):
       384–388. doi:10.4304/tpls.3.2.384-388.
   18. ^ Schmidt, Katrin (2004). The role of marriage in Jane Austen's
       'Pride and Prejudice' (thesis). University of Münster.
       ISBN 9783638849210. "compare the different kinds of marriages
       described in the novel"
   19. ^ Austen, Jane (1813). Pride and Prejudice. p. 3.
   20. ^ Chung, Ching-Yi (July 2013). "Gender and class oppression in Jane
       Austen's Pride and Prejudice". IRWLE. 9 (2).
   21. ^ Bhattacharyya, Jibesh (2005). "A critical analysis of the novel".
       Jane Austen's Pride and prejudice. New Delhi: Atlantic Publishers &amp;
       Distributors. p. 19. ISBN 9788126905492. "The irony of the opening
       sentence is revealed when we find Mrs Bennett needs a single man
       with a good fortune…for…any one of her five single daughters"
   22. ^ Pride and Pejudice. Vol. 3 (1813 ed.). pp. 322–3.
   23. ^ Michie, Elsie B. "Social Distinction in Jane Austen, Pride and
       Prejudice, 1813, edited by Donald Gray and Mary A. Favret, fourth
       Norton critical edition (2016). pp. 370–81.
   24. ^ Doody, Margaret (14 April 2015). Jane Austen's Names: Riddles,
       Persons, Places. University of Chicago Press. p. 72.
       ISBN 9780226196022. Retrieved 27 January 2018.
   25. ^ Austen, Jane. "36". Pride and Prejudice.
   26. ^ Tanner, Tony (1986). Knowledge and Opinion: Pride and Prejudice.
       Macmillan Education Ltd. p. 124. ISBN 978-0333323175.
   27. ^ Austen, Jane (2016). Pride and Prejudice. W.W. Norton &amp; Company
       Inc. p. 7. ISBN 978-0-393-26488-3.
   28. ^ Tanner, Tony (1986). Knowledge and Opinion: Pride and Prejudice.
       Macmillan Education Ltd. p. 124. ISBN 978-0333323175.
   29. ^ ^a ^b Miles, Robert (2003). Jane Austen. Writers and Their Work.
       Tavistock: Northcote House in association with the British Council.
       ISBN 978-0-7463-0876-9.
   30. ^ Baker, Amy. "Caught in the Act Of Greatness: Jane Austen's
       Characterization Of Elizabeth And Darcy By Sentence Structure In
       Pride and Prejudice." Explicator 72.3 (2014): 169–178. Academic
       Search Complete. Web. 16 February 2016.
   31. ^ Fletcher, Angus; Benveniste, Mike (Winter 2013). "A Scientific
       Justification for Literature: Jane Austen's Free Indirect Style as
--
   33. ^ ^a ^b ^c Le Faye, Deidre (2002). Jane Austen: The World of Her
       Novels. New York: Harry N. Abrams. ISBN 978-0-8109-3285-2.
   34. ^ ^a ^b ^c Rogers, Pat, ed. (2006). The Cambridge Edition of the
       Works of Jane Austen: Pride and Prejudice. Cambridge University
       Press. ISBN 978-0-521-82514-6.
   35. ^ ^a ^b Irvine, Robert (2005). Jane Austen. London: Routledge.
   36. ^ This theory is defended in "Character and Caricature in Jane
--
       Athlone press / Continuum. pp. 58–59. ISBN 9780826490704.
   37. ^ Irvine, Robert (2005). Jane Austen. London: Routledge. p. 56.
       ISBN 978-0-415-31435-0.
   38. ^ ^a ^b ^c ^d Stafford, Fiona (2004). "Notes on the Text". Pride
       and Prejudice. Oxford World's Classics (ed. James Kinley). Oxford
       University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-280238-5.
   39. ^ ^a ^b ^c Fergus, Jan (1997). "The professional woman writer". In
--
   46. ^ ^a ^b ^c ^d Johnson (1988) p.74
   47. ^ "BBC – The Big Read – Top 100 Books". May 2003. Retrieved 12 May
       2008.
   48. ^ "Aussie readers vote Pride and Prejudice best book".
       thewest.com.au. Archived from the original on 29 May 2008.
       Retrieved 24 February 2008.
   49. ^ "200th Anniversary of Pride And Prejudice: A HuffPost Books
       Austenganza". The Huffington Post. 28 January 2013.
   50. ^ Schuessler, Jennifer (28 January 2013). "Austen Fans to Celebrate
       200 Years of Pride and Prejudice". The New York Times. Retrieved 7
       February 2015.
   51. ^ "Video: Jane Austen celebrated on 200th anniversary of Pride and
       Prejudice publication". Telegraph.co.uk. 28 January 2013. Archived
       from the original on 29 January 2013.
   52. ^ ABC News. "'Pride and Prejudice' 200th Anniversary". ABC News.
   53. ^ "Queensbridge Publishing: Pride and Prejudice 200th Anniversary
       Edition by Jane Austen". queensbridgepublishing.com.
   54. ^ Kate Torgovnick May (28 January 2013). "Talks to celebrate the
       200th anniversary of Pride and Prejudice". TED Blog.
   55. ^ Rothman, Lily (28 January 2013). "Happy 200th Birthday, Pride &amp;
       Prejudice...and Happy Sundance, Too: The writer/director of the
       Sundance hit 'Austenland' talks to TIME about why we still love Mr
       Darcy centuries years later". Time. Retrieved 7 February 2015.
   56. ^ ^a ^b Fullerton, Susannah (2013). Happily Ever After: Celebrating
       Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice. Frances Lincoln Publishers.
       ISBN 978-0711233744. OCLC 1310745594.
   57. ^ Pride and Prejudice (1940) at IMDb Edit this at Wikidata
   58. ^ Pride and Prejudice (2005) at IMDb Edit this at Wikidata
   59. ^ "First Impressions the Broadway Musical".
       Janeaustensworld.wordpress.com. 6 November 2008. Retrieved 27
       January 2012.
   60. ^ "Pride and Prejudice (1995)". Bernardjtaylor.com. Archived from
       the original on 7 February 2012. Retrieved 27 January 2012.
   61. ^ "PRIDE AND PREJUDICE, the Musical".
       prideandprejudice-themusical.com.
   62. ^ Stolthet och fördom / Pride and Prejudice (2011), work details
   63. ^ "Episode 1: My Name is Lizzie Bennet". The Lizzie Bennet Diaries.
       Archived from the original on 25 May 2013. Retrieved 7 May 2013.
   64. ^ "Episode 100: The End". The Lizzie Bennet Diaries. Archived from
--
   65. ^ "'Top Chef's' 'Last Chance Kitchen,' 'Oprah's Lifeclass,' the
       Nick App, and 'The Lizzie Bennet Diaries' to Receive Interactive
       Media Emmys". yahoo.com. 22 August 2013.
   66. ^ Hasan, Heba (24 April 2012). "Pride and Prejudice, the Web Diary
       Edition". Time. Retrieved 16 August 2012.
   67. ^ Koski, Genevieve (3 May 2012). "Remember Pride And Prejudice?
       It's back, in vlog form!". The A.V. Club. Retrieved 16 August 2012.
   68. ^ Matheson, Whitney (4 May 2012). "Cute Web series: 'The Lizzie
       Bennet Diaries'". USA Today. Retrieved 16 August 2012.
   69. ^ "'Orgulho e Paixão': novela se inspira em livros de Jane Austen".
       Revista Galileu (in Brazilian Portuguese). Retrieved 10 April 2023.
   70. ^ Booster, Joel Kim. "Pride and Prejudice on Fire Island". Penguin
       Random House. Retrieved 21 June 2022.
   71. ^ "Abigail Reynolds Author Page". Amazon. Retrieved 27 July 2012.
   72. ^ "Bella Breen Author Page". Amazon.
   73. ^ Grossman, Lev (April 2009). "Pride and Prejudice, Now with
       Zombies". TIME. Archived from the original on 4 April 2009.
       Retrieved 26 April 2009.
   74. ^ "Quirkclassics.com". Quirkclassics.com. Retrieved 27 January
--
   84. ^ Sittenfeld, Curtis (19 April 2016). Eligible. Random House.
       ISBN 978-1400068326.
   85. ^ Gomez-Galisteo, Carmen. “An Eligible Bachelor: Austen, Love, and
       Marriage in Pride and Prejudice and Eligible by Curtis Sittenfeld”.
       Anglo Saxonica, No. 20, issue 1, art. 9, 2022, pp. 1–11.
       https://revista-anglo-saxonica.org/articles/10.5334/as.92
   86. ^ Roberts, Sarah A.; Simpson, Deborah M.; Armstrong, Stuart D.;
--
       individual male's odour". BMC Biology. 8: 75.
       doi:10.1186/1741-7007-8-75. ISSN 1741-7007. PMC 2890510.
       PMID 20525243.
   87. ^ Stern, William (1 March 2016). "Pride and protein". Journal of
       Inherited Metabolic Disease. 39 (2): 321–324.
       doi:10.1007/s10545-015-9908-7. ISSN 1573-2665. PMID 26743057.
       S2CID 24476197.
   88. ^ Manga Classics: Pride and Prejudice (2014) UDON Entertainment
       ISBN 978-1927925188

External links[edit]

   Search Wikisource
   Wikisource has original text related to this article:
   Pride and Prejudice

   Wikiquote has quotations related to Pride and Prejudice.

     * Media related to Pride and Prejudice at Wikimedia Commons
     * Pride and Prejudice at Standard Ebooks
     *
     * Pride and Prejudice (Chapman edition) at Project Gutenberg
     * Pride and Prejudice public domain audiobook at LibriVox
     * Digital resources relating to Jane Austen from the British
       Library's Discovering Literature website

--
     * t
     * e

   Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice

   Characters

--

   Films

     * Pride and Prejudice (1940)
     * Bridget Jones's Diary (2001)
     * Pride &amp; Prejudice: A Latter-Day Comedy (2003)
     * Bride and Prejudice (2004)
     * Pride &amp; Prejudice (2005)
     * Austenland (2013 film)
     * Pride and Prejudice and Zombies (2016)
     * Fire Island (2022)

   Television

     * Elizabeth Refuses (1957)
     * Pride and Prejudice (1958)
     * Pride and Prejudice (1967)
     * Pride and Prejudice (1980)
     * Trishna (1985)
     * Pride and Prejudice (1995)
     * Will be Somewhere (2004)
     * Lost in Austen (2008)
     * Death Comes to Pemberley (2013)
--
          + These Three Remain (2005)
     * Austenland (2007)
     * Love, Lies and Lizzie (2009)
     * Pride and Prejudice and Zombies (2009 parody)
     * Pride and Prejudice and Zombies: Dawn of the Dreadfuls (2010
       parody)
     * Death Comes to Pemberley (2011)
     * Longbourn (2013)
--
   Theatre

     * First Impressions (1959 musical)
     * Pride and Prejudice (1993 musical)
     * Stolthet och fördom (2011 opera)
     * Pride and Prejudice* (*sort of) (2018 play)

   Other

--

   See also

     * Pride &amp; Prejudice (2005 soundtrack)
     * Pemberley
     * List of literary adaptations

--

   Major
     * Sense and Sensibility (1811)
     * Pride and Prejudice (1813)
     * Mansfield Park (1814)
     * Emma (1816)
     * Northanger Abbey (1818)
--
     * IdRef

   Retrieved from
   "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Pride_and_Prejudice&amp;oldid=1
   193672392"

   Categories:
     * Pride and Prejudice
     * 1813 British novels
     * British novels adapted into films
     * Novels by Jane Austen</text>
</page> §
<page="en-18">
<text>    2. Parents
    3. Quotes
    4. Collections
    5. 63 Best Pride Quotes And Sayings To Keep You Humble

   FOR ALL AGES
   (BUTTON)

63 Best Pride Quotes And Sayings To Keep You Humble

   Written by

--
   Outdoor &amp; Nature
   Learn more
   (BUTTON) Show all photos 1 (BUTTON) 303 days left
   Quotes About Pride Famous Pride Book Quotes Quotes On Pride By Famous
   People Pride Quotes That Encourage Humility
   Read these Tokyo facts to learn all about the Japanese capital.
   (BUTTON) Show all photos 1 (BUTTON) 303 days left

--

Kidadl Article Fact-checking Standards

   At Kidadl we pride ourselves on offering families original ideas to
   make the most of time spent together at home or out and about, wherever
   you are in the world. We strive to recommend the very best things that
   are suggested by our community and are things we would do ourselves -
--

   (BUTTON) Share this article

   Pride is defined as a feeling of worthiness and, interestingly, it can
   be both detrimental and beneficial to an individual's personality.

   Generally, it is good to be proud of yourself, as having pride in
   yourself will boost your self-esteem and self-worth, and perhaps even
   motivate you to achieve your goals. However, too much pride can be
   negative, remember the famous saying: "pride always comes before a
   fall"?

   Most pride is positive though, such as the pride that parents feel when
   their child graduates from college! So, let's celebrate ourselves and
   embrace being proud with this list of the best pride quotes that define
   this quality in the best possible way.

   For more great quotes, check out these stay humble quotes and vanity
   quotes.

Quotes About Pride

   Portrait of proud bearded young man

   This list of sayings and quotes about being proud will give you an idea
   of how detrimental unchecked pride can be and how important it is to
   take pride in what you do.

   1. "Some people would rather die in their pride, than live in their
   humility."

   -Anthony Liccione.

   2. "Pride must die in you, or nothing of heaven can live in you."

   -Andrew Murray.

   3. "Pride costs us more than hunger, thirst, and cold."

   -Thomas Jefferson.

--

   -Soren Kierkegaard.

   5. "Pride builds walls between people, humility builds bridges."

   -Rick Warren.

   6. "Britain has a great sense of its own national pride. It's like the
   monarchy is the embodiment of that pride."

   -John Lithgow.

   7. "I take some pride in... representing myself exactly how I would
   like to have my son remember me to his kids."

   -Robert Downey, Jr.

   8. "Through pride we are ever deceiving ourselves."

   -Carl Jung.

   9. "Pride and excess bring disaster for man."

   -Xun Kuang.

   10. "I take pride in saying that I am an army officer's daughter even
   more than being an actor."

   -Anushka Sharma.

   11. "Pride comes before the fall."

   -Proverbs 16:18.

   12. "I think pride is more important sometimes than making money."

   -Kapil Dev.

   13. "Humility was considered a great virtue in my family household. No
   show of complacency or self-satisfaction was ever tolerated. Patting
   yourself on the back was definitely not encouraged, and pleasure or
   pride would be punishable by death."

   -Hugh Laurie.

   14. "I pride myself on being a family man. I pride myself on being
   respectful and hardworking."

   -Alexander Volkanovski.
--

   -Evelyn Ashford.

Famous Pride Book Quotes

   Here's a list of some of the best quotes on pride from famous books and
   novels, including some famous 'Pride And Prejudice' quotes. These books
   often discuss a time when pride still mattered.

   16. "Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often
   used synonymously. A person may be proud without being vain. Pride
   relates more to our opinion of ourselves, vanity to what we would have
   others think of us."

   -Jane Austen, 'Pride and Prejudice'.

   17. "And not only the pride of intellect, but the stupidity of
   intellect."

   -Leo Tolstoy, 'Anna Karenina'.

   18. "When dealing with people, remember you are not dealing with
   creatures of logic, but with creatures bristling with prejudice and
   motivated by pride and vanity."

   -Dale Carnegie, 'How To Win Friends And Influence People'.

   19. "The tyrant is a child of Pride, who drinks from his sickening cup
   recklessness and vanity, until from his high crest headlong he plummets
   to the dust of hope."

   -Sophocles, 'Oedipus Rex'.

   20. "Fear and realisation of ignorance, strong medicines against stupid
   pride."

   -Garth Nix, 'Sabriel'.

   21. "The hated man is the result of his hater's pride rather than his
   hater's conscience.”

   -Criss Jami, 'Diotima, Battery, Electric Personality'.

   22. "Pride helps us; and pride is not a bad thing when it only urges us
   to hide our own hurts—not to hurt others."

   -George Eliot, 'Middlemarch'.
--

   -Ezra Taft Benson.

   24. "For thirty minutes I sat back and felt the glimmer of pride that
   historically precedes the most catastrophic falls."

   -Antony John, 'Five Flavors Of Dumb'.

   25. "Love hath no pride."

   -Karen Marie Moning, 'Kiss Of The Highlander'.

   26. "Many religious people suffer from pride: taking pleasure or even
   delight in being good, or religious."

   -Idries Shah, 'Sufi Thought And Action'.

   27. "I am not proud, but I am happy; and happiness blinds, I think,
   more than pride."

   -Alexandre Dumas, 'The Count Of Monte Cristo'.

   28. "Rowan considered for a moment, and then said, 'I have known many
   kings in my life, Dorian Havilliard. And it was a rare man indeed who
   asked for help when he needed it, who would put aside pride.'"

   -Sarah J. Maas, 'Empire Of Storms'.

   29. "There had been an attempt to humiliate him. It had not succeeded.
   He had paid, but pain, like pleasure, has no duration. Pride was an
   entity more persistent."

   -Jack Vance, 'The Palace Of Love'.

   30. "Take pride away from a man and you might as well run a knife
   through his heart."

   -Julie Garwood, 'Mercy'.

Quotes On Pride By Famous People

   Fame is often followed by a sense of pride. Here is a list of pride
   sayings by famous people who had a lot to say about this quality.

   31. "I've always been someone who believes in being real and embraced
   my imperfections with pride rather than covering it up."

   -Zareen Khan.

   32. "Pride will spit in pride's face."

   -Thomas Fuller.

   33. "I always take pride in the fact that nobody can mess with me, and
   I never let anybody mess with me my entire life."

   -Dean Ambrose.

   34. "The greatest pride, or the greatest despondency, is the greatest
   ignorance of one's self."

   -Baruch Spinoza.

   35. "It's a fine thing to rise above pride, but you must have pride in
   order to do so."

   -Georges Bernanos.

   36. "It was pride that changed angels into devils; it is humility that
   makes men as angels."

   -Augustine of Hippo.

   37. "I pride myself on being a good friend, and all my friends can
   attest to that."

   -Kyle Richards.

   38. "Pride. You have it where you can have it."

   ― Marilyn French.

   39. "Pride is pleasure arising from a man's thinking too highly of
   himself."

   -Baruch Spinoza.

   40. "Poor nations are hungry, and rich nations are proud; and pride and
   hunger will ever be at variance."

   -Jonathan Swift.

   41. "She laughed and said not to confuse pride with nobleness."

   -Brom, 'Krampus: The Yule Lord'.

   42. "I guess I take a lot of pride in that no matter what type of car
   we drive, we're always competitive in it. That's something I've taken a
   lot of pride in my whole life."

   -Tony Stewart.

--
   -Benjamin Whichcote.

   45. "I just believe that young people need to be able to learn how to
   write in their own voice. Just like a musician, you pride yourself on
   having your own distinct sound."

   -Terry McMillan.

Pride Quotes That Encourage Humility

   Here is a list of some beautiful pride quotes that will help you stay
   grounded.

   46. "Behind every argument lies someone's ignorance."

   -Louis D. Brandeis.

   47. "In general, pride is at the bottom of all great mistakes."

   -John Ruskin.

--

   -Michel de Montaigne.

   51. "Humility is nothing but truth, and pride is nothing but lying."

   -St. Vincent de Paul.

--

   -T. S. Eliot.

   53. "Leave your pride, ego, and narcissism somewhere else. Reactions
   from those parts of you will reinforce your children's most primitive
   fears."

   -Dr. Henry Cloud &amp; Dr. John Townsend.

   54. "Our pride will lead us to perish, but our politeness keeps us
   alive."

   -Sipho P. Nkosi.
--

   -Criss Jami.

   56. "Pride is not the opposite of shame, but its source. True humility
   is the only antidote to shame."

   -General Iroh.
--

   -Timothy Keller.

   58. "The rich swell up with pride, the poor from hunger."

   -Sholom Aleichem.

   59. "Sometimes I think that you have to swallow your pride a little bit
   and know when you are done."

   -Jason White.

   60. "Pride is an admission of weakness; it secretly fears all
   competition and dreads all rivals."

   -Fulton J. Sheen.

   61. "Pride is an independent, me-oriented spirit. It makes people
   arrogant, rude and hard to get along with. When our heart is prideful,
   we don't give God the credit and we mistreat people, looking down on
   them and thinking we deserve what we have."

   -Joyce Meyer.

   62. "Pride gets no pleasure out of having something, only out of having
   more of it than the next man... It is the comparison that makes you
   proud: the pleasure of being above the rest."

   ― C. S. Lewis.

   63. "All men make mistakes, but a good man yields when he knows his
   course is wrong, and repairs the evil. The only crime is pride."

   ― Sophocles.

   At Kidadl, we have created lots of interesting family-friendly quotes
   for everyone to enjoy! If you liked these pride quotes, why not check
   out these [proverbs quotes] or purpose driven life quotes too?

Written By
--

Disclaimer

   At Kidadl we pride ourselves on offering families original ideas to
   make the most of time spent together at home or out and about, wherever
   you are in the world. We strive to recommend the very best things that
   are suggested by our community and are things we would do ourselves -</text>
</page> §
<page="en-19">
<text>   #Chicago Public Library » Feed Chicago Public Library » Comments Feed
   Chicago Public Library » Historical Context of Pride and Prejudice
   Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

   Skip to main navigation Skip to main navigation Skip to search Skip to
--

   Close Dialog

   (BUTTON) Show Menu: Pride and Prejudice

     * Pride and Prejudice: One Book, One Chicago Fall 2005
     * Jane Austen Biography
     * Pride and Prejudice Discussion Questions
     * Historical Context of Pride and Prejudice
     * Jane Austen and Europe in Her Lifetime: A Chronology

   (BUTTON) Close Menu: Pride and Prejudice

     * Pride and Prejudice: One Book, One Chicago Fall 2005
     * Jane Austen Biography
     * Pride and Prejudice Discussion Questions
     * Historical Context of Pride and Prejudice
     * Jane Austen and Europe in Her Lifetime: A Chronology

   (BUTTON) Close Menu: Pride and Prejudice

Historical Context of Pride and Prejudice

The Georgian Era

   Between 1797, when a young Jane Austen began work on what would become
   Pride and Prejudice, and 1813, when the novel was published, the French
   Revolution was fought, Marie Antoinette was guillotined and Napoleon
   rose to power and conquered most of Western Europe. Closer to Austen’s
   home, Great Britain combined with Ireland to become the United Kingdom,
--
   London town homes whose social and political connections bought them
   seats in Parliament or influence in the royal court.

   In Pride and Prejudice, the Bennets are, like Jane Austen herself,
   members of an educated upper middle class known as the “gentry” or the
   “landed gentry.” Considered socially eligible to mix with the
   landowning aristocracy, but quite a step beneath them in wealth,
--

     * Copeland, Edward. “Money.” The Cambridge Companion to Jane Austen.
       Cambridge University Press, 1997.
     * Gray, Donald. “A Note on Money.” Pride and Prejudice: An
       Authoritative Text, Backgrounds and Sources, Criticism, 3rd ed.
       Norton, 2001.
     * “Jane Austen.” Concise Dictionary of British Literary Biography.</text>
</page> §
<page="en-2">
<text>     * Y
     * Z

Pride Quotes

     * facebook
     * twitter
--
       143 Copy quote
       Show source
     *
     * It's a fine thing to rise above pride, but you must have pride in
       order to do so.
       Georges Bernanos
       Order, Excellence, Rise Above
--
       88 Copy quote
       Show source
     *
     * Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often
       used synonymously. A person may be proud without being vain. Pride
       relates more to our opinion of ourselves; vanity, to what we would
       have others think of us.
       Jane Austen
       Thinking, Vanity, Mrs Bennet
       Jane Austen (2008). “Pride and Prejudice”, p.26, Waking Lion Press
       93 Copy quote
       Show source
     *
     * Pride makes us artificial and humility makes us real.
       Thomas Merton
       Inspirational, Wisdom, Fake People
       Thomas Merton (2005). “No Man is an Island”, p.119, Shambhala
--
       People, Important, World
       279 Copy quote
     *
     * It was pride that changed angels into devils; it is humility that
       makes men as angels.
       Saint Augustine
       Humility, Angel, Men
--
       150 Copy quote
       Show source
     *
     * Generosity is giving more than you can, and pride is taking less
       than you need.
       Khalil Gibran
       Inspirational, Life, Humility
--
       Dog, Witty, Cat
       19 Copy quote
     *
     * Pride is concerned with who is right. Humility is concerned with
       what is right.
       Ezra Taft Benson
       Communication, Kids, Humility
--
     * Sophocles quote: All men make mistakes, but a good man yields when
       he knows his course...
       All men make mistakes, but a good man yields when he knows his
       course is wrong, and repairs the evil. The only crime is pride.
       Sophocles
       Mistake, Character, Men
       Sophocles (1977). “The Oedipus Cycle: An English Version”, Harcourt
       83 Copy quote
       Show source
     *
     * Humility is nothing but truth, and pride is nothing but lying.
       Vincent de Paul
       Truth, Lying, Humility
       174 Copy quote
     *
     * Pride and weakness are Siamese twins.
       James Russell Lowell
       Weakness, Twins
       James Russell Lowell (1845). “Conversations on Some of the Old
--
       9 Copy quote
       Show source
     *
     * Pride must die in you, or nothing of heaven can live in you.
       Andrew Murray
       Humility, Heaven, Dies
       Andrew Murray (2016). “Humility: The Beauty of Holiness”, p.45,
--
     *
     * Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool I've
       ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. Because
       almost everything - all external expectations, all pride, all fear
       of embarrassment or failure - these things just fall away in the
       face of death, leaving only what is truly important.
       Steve Jobs
--
       78 Copy quote
       Show source
     *
     * When pride and presumption walk before, shame and loss follow very
       closely.
       Louis XI of France
       Loss, Haughtiness, Shame
       17 Copy quote
     *
     * Through pride we are ever deceiving ourselves. But deep down below
       the surface of the average conscience a still, small voice says to
       us, something is out of tune.
       Carl Jung
       Leadership, Average, Voice
       79 Copy quote
     *
     * Pride gets no pleasure out of having something, only out of having
       more of it than the next man.
       C. S. Lewis
       Humility, Men, Next
--
       Men, Proud, Forsaken
       17 Copy quote
     *
     * Humility and knowledge in poor clothes excel pride and ignorance in
       costly attire.
       William Penn
       Ignorance, Humility, Reality
--
       Fighting, Men, Proud Person
       13 Copy quote
     *
     * Spiritual pride is the most dangerous and the most arrogant of all
       sorts of pride.
       Samuel Richardson
       Spiritual, Arrogant, Dangerous
       Samuel Richardson (1755). “A collection of the moral and
--
       Proud
       10 Copy quote
     *
     * As soon as there was two there was pride.
       John Donne
       Two
       13 Copy quote
     *
     * Pride gets no pleasure out of having something, only out of having
       more of it than the next man... It is the comparison that makes you
       proud: the pleasure of being above the rest. Once the element of
       competition is gone, pride is gone.
       C. S. Lewis
       Men, Competition, Religion
       C.S. Lewis (1996). “Joyful Christian”, p.164, Simon and Schuster
       26 Copy quote
       Show source
     *
     * Self-centered indulgence, pride and a lack of shame over sin are
       now emblems of the American lifestyle.
       Billy Graham
       Self, Sin, Shame
--
   Sun
   Lgbt
   Proud
   Gay Pride
   Too Much Pride
   Black Pride

Pride quotes by:

     * Jane Austen Novelist
     * Charles Caleb Colton Writer</text>
</page> §
<page="en-20">
<text>   #Pride Edinburgh » Feed Pride Edinburgh » Comments Feed alternate
   alternate alternate

   Pride Edinburgh

     * Home
     * The March
     * The Festival
     * The Pride Guide
     * Blog
     * Contact

   Select Page

Pride Edinburgh

Saturday 24th June 2023

   Scotlands longest running celebration of diversity, Pride Edinburgh
   ensuring the rainbow shines over the capital city.

   DONATE NOW!

The Festival

   Discover the areas at Pride Edinburgh’s Village
   Learn More

Sponsorship

   Join the Celebration of Diversity and Inclusion: Become a Sponsor for
   Pride Edinburgh Today!
   Learn More

The March

   Join the Movement for Equality and Love: March with Pride at Pride
   Edinburgh
   Learn More

--

   Second(s)

Pride Edinburgh is the longest running free celebration of the LGBT community
in Scotland.

   Since starting in 1994, Pride Edinburgh has grown exponentially.
   Coupled with the growth of digital channels we see our own digital
   presence as a vital part to engage with the community.

   Based on our community’s feedback and our ambitions we see the
   following as key areas of focus in the coming years:
     * Developing Pride Edinburgh’s value in the community by becoming a
       directory and promoter of LGBT life in Edinburgh and beyond.
     * Continue to grow the event to continuously improve accessibility
       and impact for the LGBT community.
--
Latest News


   Celebrating Queer Joy – Art Exhibition in Teviot on Pride Day

Celebrating Queer Joy – Art Exhibition in Teviot on Pride Day

   by Nadine Love | Jun 21, 2023 | News

   Credit to Jaime Prada as both the photographer of the images above and
   the curator of the exhibition.'Celebrating Queer Joy' is an uplifting
   exhibition brought to you in collaboration of Pride Edinburgh and
   Carried Away,  honouring the beauty of queer joy in all its...

The Secrets to Building Strong Professional Relationships
--

   by jamie | Oct 6, 2022 | Press Release

   Pride Edinburgh is Scotland’s national LGBTQIA+ festival. This year
   will mark our 26th Anniversary Pride Event in the capital city. The
   annual Pride Edinburgh March confirms our shared commitment to a better
   future for all irrespective of sexuality, gender, and...

The Secrets to Building Strong Professional Relationships
--
   Event Partner
   Travel Partner
   Travel Partner
   Pride March Partner
   Pride March Partner
   Entertainment Partner
   Entertainment Partner
   Cinema Partner</text>
</page> §
<page="en-21">
<text>     * Sign In

   (BUTTON)
   Sermons [     Sermons   _____________] pride_______________
   (BUTTON)

     * Sermon Prep
--
     * Articles
     * Bible

   Sermons [     Sermons   _____________] pride_______________
   (BUTTON)

     * Home
     *
     * Sermons
     *
     * Search Results: Pride

   Free Sermons and Sermon Outlines for Preaching :

Sermons on pride: showing 1-15 of 25,968

   Filter Results
   Sort By
--

     * Patrick O'Loughlin avatar

God’s Power Verses Man’s Pride Series

Contributed by Patrick O'loughlin on Sep 29, 2010
       based on 4 ratings
        | 8,957 views
       God wants to show His power but His greatest obstacle to doing so
       is man’s pride
       Text: Daniel chapter 4 Title: God’s power verses Man’s Pride
       Introduction Daniel chapter 4 begins with great news for every
       believer. “To the peoples, nations and men of every language, who
       live in all the world: May you prosper greatly! It is my pleasure
--
     *
     * Stephen Funderburk avatar

7 Deadly Sins: Pride

Contributed by Stephen Funderburk on Feb 26, 2008
       based on 1 rating
--
       The first of the seven deadly sins, considered the root of all
       others sins. It was this sin that caused Lucifer to fall from
       heaven.
       The first of the seven deadly sins is pride. A simple definition of
       the word pride is an exaggerated opinion of one’s value and worth.
       It is the attitude of superiority over others. A biblical example
       of pride is the tower of Babel where the people said, we will make
       a name for ourselves. Tonight ...read more
       Scripture: [ ] Proverbs 16:18
       Denomination: Assembly Of God
     * Jonathan Russell avatar

The Problem With Pride Series

Contributed by Jonathan Russell on Jul 1, 2007
       based on 8 ratings
        | 6,530 views
       Examining pride in the life of a believer
       1. The DESCRIPTION of Pride A. What is pride? 1) Proverbs 21:4 2)
       Pride is taking God’s glory for yourself 3) Pride occurs when we
       forget where our blessings come from B. Who does pride come from? 1
       John 2:16 Isaiah 14:12-15 C. Why does pride tempt us? 1) Satan’s
       goal: remove God from the throne of ...read more
       Scripture: [ ] 2 Chronicles 32:24-33
       Denomination: Baptist
--
Contributed by Keith Crouch on Nov 25, 2004
       based on 16 ratings
        | 2,423 views
       The sin of pride is one that will destroy a church and we see in
       the example of Babel how we build our own monument of pride.
       Are We Building Babel? Proverbs 16:18-19, Genesis 11:1-9 I. Pride
       Affects Our Worship (v. 4a) A. Pride affects the Object of Our
       Worship 1. Pride in Ourselves Leads to Idol Worship 2. Pride in Our
       Wealth Leads to Idol Worship B. Pride Affects Our Offering of
       Worship 1. Pride affects Our Motive ...read more
       Scripture: [ ] Genesis 11:1-9
       Denomination: Baptist
     * Brian Williams avatar

Breaking The Power Of Pride

Contributed by Brian Williams on Apr 6, 2023
        | 2,196 views
       Believers may not often realize it, we are either centered on man
       or centered on God. There is no alternative. Either God is the
       center and we have become rightly adjusted to him, or we are the
       center and everything revolves around us. How is power of pride
       broken?
       There are basically two types of evil on this earth - natural evils
       which include earthquakes, typhoons, tsunamis, flash floods, etc.
--
       Denomination: Evangelical/Non-Denominational
     * Lynn Floyd avatar

Dealing With Pride

Contributed by Lynn Floyd on Aug 16, 2002
       based on 269 ratings
        | 72,181 views
       I talk about what pride is, how God feels about it, and what to do
       about it in our lives.
       Dealing With Pride Intro: A minister received a Christmas card with
       a note in it from a lady in his congregation. He said she was very
       complimentary about his preaching, &amp; compared him with Billy
       Graham. She finished by writing, "I think you are one of the really
--
     *
     * David Owens avatar

Those Feelings Of Pride Series

Contributed by David Owens on Apr 11, 2021
        | 4,047 views
       God has given us the ability to feel the emotion of pride so that
       we can benefit from good pride and avoid the destructive nature of
       bad pride. It is important to know the difference between the two
       kinds of pride.
       A. Once there was a guy named Zeke who had so much pride he could
       never admit he was wrong. 1. One day Zeke wandered into the
       blacksmith shop with sawdust all over the floor. 2. A few minutes
       before Zeke arrived, the blacksmith had been working on an
--
       based on 4 ratings
        | 4,181 views
       Hezekiah is a great king, with great talents and abilities, but he
       has one weakness--pride. Pride is not totally bad, is it? Look at
       Hezekiah, he was successful. So what is the danger in pride?
       JUST ONE LITTLE PROBLEM TEXT: 2 KINGS 18-20 THEME: THE RISE AND
       FALL OF PRIDE IN LIFE. Mike Duncan was the coach of Corey Brewer of
       Portland, TN. You might know Corey Brewer. He won two national
       championships with the Florida Gators in the last two years. It is
       predicted that Corey will ...read more
       Denomination: Christian/Church Of Christ
     * Joseph Rodgers avatar

Pride Series

Contributed by Joseph Rodgers on Nov 13, 2005
       based on 10 ratings
        | 17,593 views
       Teh 4th message in a sermon series on the seven deadly sins.
       Virus: Hidden Infections of the Spiritual Life Pride – Lk. 18:9-14
       Review: We’re halfway in a series on the (7) deadly sins entitled
       Virus. The obvious question is why (7) and why deadly? The list was
       created by theologians in the Middle Ages. They studied the Bible
--

Contributed by Mark Eberly on Apr 13, 2008
        | 4,247 views
       Pride is the first of the 7 deadly sins. It is insidious. It is
       also often recognized as being present alongside the other 6 sins.
       We’ll look at what makes this so dangerous.
       Se7en: Pride 2 Chronicles 32:24-26 April 13, 2008 Pride is the
       first of the seven deadly sins. Many preachers and theologians have
       noted that pride is perhaps the one deadly sin that connects all
       the other deadly sins together. It acts like the nervous system. It
       feeds the other sins. It helps ...read more
       Scripture: [ ] 2 Chronicles 32:24-26
       Denomination: Church Of God
     * James Dina avatar

Pride

Contributed by James Dina on Jul 26, 2020
       based on 2 ratings
        | 10,888 views
       God resists the proud.That demon of pride was born with us, and it
       will not die one hour before us. None of us are invisible to this
       ancient enemy.Therefore, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of
       God(1 Peter 5:6).
       PRIDE “God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble.” (1
       Peter 5:5) God demonstrates His own love toward us, in that while
       we were still sinners, Christ died for us (Romans 5:8). The love of
       God is beyond our understanding. He ...read more
--
     *
     * Tyler Edwards avatar

Pride Series

Contributed by Tyler Edwards on Apr 15, 2009
       based on 8 ratings
        | 15,639 views
       One of the keys to a Godly life is understanding the nature of sin
       and the danger it poses in our Spiritual lives.
       7 Deadly Sins Series July 20, 2008 Pride Not all sin is created
       equal. While all sin is equally offensive and wrong in the eyes of
       God they are not all equal. There are some sins that some people
       will never deal with in their lives. There are people who are so
--
       Denomination: *other
     * Anthony Zibolski avatar

Pride Is A Killer...if

Contributed by Anthony Zibolski on Jun 23, 2022
       based on 1 rating
        | 2,409 views
       We must allow the Lord to destroy pride in our lives
       Pride is a killer if… Introduction- Good Morning, Glad that you are
       able to join us this morning. It is a wonderful thing that we can
       record our sermons and those that want to listen have a place to go
       to hear God’s word. Question for you- What would you do if you
--
       Denomination: Nazarene
     * James Stewart Jr. avatar

The Pride Ride Pt 1 Series

Contributed by James Stewart Jr. on Jul 13, 2003
       based on 59 ratings
        | 9,436 views
       This is the first message in the series on the Seven Deadly Sins.
       Intro; I am starting a series on the "Seven Deadly Sins." Today’s
       message is the first one entitled the "The Pride Ride Part 1."
       Pride is defined as “An inordinate amount of self-esteem.” The
       synonyms for the word PRIDE are not pretty; they are conceit,
       arrogance, and boastfulness. Pride is ...read more
       Scripture: [ ] 1 John 2:15-17, Isaiah 14:13-14
       Denomination: Pentecostal
     * DAN SANTIAGO avatar

Dangers Of Pride

Contributed by Dan Santiago on Jan 10, 2008
       based on 16 ratings
        | 28,598 views
       People should realize the risk of living in pride.
       DANGERS OF PRIDE Obadiah 1:1-21 Definition of PRIDE 1. A reasonable
       and justifiable self-respect. 2. An inordinate self-esteem:
       conceit; inflated self-exaltation; exceeding reasonable limits.
       ILLUSTRATION Pride is the only disease known to man that makes
       everyone ...read more
       Scripture: [ ] Obadiah 1:1-21
       Denomination: Baptist</text>
</page> §
<page="en-22">
<text>   #Metro Manila Pride » Feed Metro Manila Pride » Comments Feed Metro
   Manila Pride » iCal Feed alternate alternate

   MMPride logo - Thick black text saying MMPRIDE
   MMPride logo - Thick white text saying MMPRIDE
     * Programs
     * About
     * Resources
--

EducateEquipEmpower

   Metro Manila Pride is a volunteer-managed, non-partisan, not-for-profit
   organization dedicated to educating, equipping and empowering the
   Filipino LGBTQIA+ and their communities to work towards a future that
   recognizes and respects the rights of LGBTQIA+ persons to a dignified
--
   and arms. They are shouting to the crowd, while holding a bright pink
   decorative ornament with light pink roses around it. Behind them, a
   rainbow flag waves.
   Image: A wide shot of the front of a parade. A Pride March marshal
   raises a rainbow flag, followed by a large crowd holding a tarpaulin
   that reads 'RESIST TOGETHER'.

--

   Our programs have been created to help support the Filipino LGBTQIA+
   community through programs that uplift, engage and inspire—from the
   annual Pride March to crafting educational resources and supporting
   independent artists.
   See all our programs
   Image: Three people raising their left fists to the air. In the
--
   shirt is smiling widely and holding another placard and a black
   umbrella in their right hand.

Annual Pride March and Festival

   Learn more
   Image: A close-up photo of a lecturer standing in front of a crowd,
--
   Image: Six people are in the middle of a conversation. They are seated
   on a floor, with a flat sheet of manila paper in between them.

Support Pride

   Metro Manila Pride is 100% volunteer-run. Your support helps our
   organization run programs committed to helping the Filipino
   LGBTQIA+. Support us by donating to the organization or signing up to
   volunteer to make things happen.
   Volunteer with usMake a donation

The latest social media posts from Metro Manila Pride

     Metro Manila Pride

   Follow @mmprideorg

   Tweets by mmprideorg

   MMPride logo - Thick black text saying MMPRIDE

   OVERVIEW

   PROGRAMS
   Pride March and Festival
   Human Rights Education and Research

   ABOUT
--
   PRIVACY POLICY
   SITEMAP

Follow us at @mmprideorg
     __________________________________________________________________

   2021 © Metro Manila LGBTQ+ Pride, Inc.

   ____________________</text>
</page> §
<page="en-23">
<text>   #Twin Cities Pride » Feed Twin Cities Pride » Comments Feed Twin Cities
   Pride » iCal Feed alternate alternate alternate alternate

   TCPride Logo

     * Pride Events
          + Accessibility
          + Twin Cities Pride Festival
               o 2024 Festival Vendor FAQ
               o 2023 Festival Info / Map / Hours
               o 2023 Festival Entertainment
               o 2023 Festival Transportation and Parking
               o 2023 Festival Vendor FAQ – Reference Only
          + Rainbow Run 5K My Way
          + Twin Cities LGBTQ+ Pride March
          + Plan Your Visit
          + Cheers to Pride
          + Grand Marshal Reception
          + Pride Family Fun Day
          + You Belong Fall Fest
          + Queer Career Resource Fair
     * Programs
--
          + Pay a Bill
     * About Us
          + Contact Us
          + About Twin Cities Pride
          + Our Financials
          + Sponsorship Opportunities
          + Volunteer with Us
--
          + Board of Directors
          + Paid Staff
          + LGBTQ+ History Tours
          + Pride Moments Throughout the 2021 Pandemic Year
          + Twin Cities Pride Magazine
          + Twin Cities Pride Podcast

   Menu

     * Pride Events
          + Accessibility
          + Twin Cities Pride Festival
               o 2024 Festival Vendor FAQ
               o 2023 Festival Info / Map / Hours
               o 2023 Festival Entertainment
               o 2023 Festival Transportation and Parking
               o 2023 Festival Vendor FAQ – Reference Only
          + Rainbow Run 5K My Way
          + Twin Cities LGBTQ+ Pride March
          + Plan Your Visit
          + Cheers to Pride
          + Grand Marshal Reception
          + Pride Family Fun Day
          + You Belong Fall Fest
          + Queer Career Resource Fair
     * Programs
--
          + Pay a Bill
     * About Us
          + Contact Us
          + About Twin Cities Pride
          + Our Financials
          + Sponsorship Opportunities
          + Volunteer with Us
--
          + Board of Directors
          + Paid Staff
          + LGBTQ+ History Tours
          + Pride Moments Throughout the 2021 Pandemic Year
          + Twin Cities Pride Magazine
          + Twin Cities Pride Podcast

Twin Cities Pride Festival

   Festival Map / Vendor List
   Entertainment Lineup
--

EMERGENCY CALL 9-1-1

Text TCPRIDE to 333111 to sign up for important alerts from our Health and
Safety team.

   Msg &amp; data rates may apply
--
Loring Park &amp; Parade Park
Minneapolis, MN

Twin Cities Pride Festival is a CELEBRATION of the LGBTQ+ Community and
ALL LGBTQ+ people and allies are welcome!

As always, Twin Cities Pride Festival is FREE!

The 51st annual Twin Cities Pride Festival will be held at Loring Park and
Parade Park in Minneapolis June 23 – 25, 2023 and will feature local BIPOC
and LGBTQ+ vendors, food courts, a beer garden, and music stages.

The 2023 Twin Cities LGBTQ+ Pride March Honoring Ashley Rukes will be Sunday,
June 25, 2023 11:00 AM – 2:00 PM on Hennepin Ave.

Thank You to Our Sponsors!
--

2023-2024 TECHNOLOGY PARTNERS

   TC Pride Logo

   The mission of Twin Cities Pride is to empower every LGBTQ+ person to
   live as their true self. We envision a future where all LGBTQ+ people
   are valued and celebrated for who they are.

   Twin Cities Pride is a Minnesota 501(c)(3) charitable nonprofit
   organization and an Equal Opportunity employer.

   Privacy Policy  |  Terms of Use  |  DMCA Notice
   © Copyright 2023 – Twin Cities Pride

   Skip to content</text>
</page> §
<page="en-24">
<text>   4 MINUTE READ
   July 20, 2023

Ambassador Gutmann's Opening Statement for Pride Day Panel 2023

   AMB Gutmann delivering remarks in chancery courtyard Today we have
   invited you all to join us in honoring the contributions of the LGBTQ+
   communities in both Germany and the United States, to celebrate their
   legacy, and to chart an inspiring course — “toward a more perfect
   union” — for the future.  That is what Pride Month is all about –
   taking stock of the past to prepare us for a more inclusive, just, and
   joyful future.

   Speaking of more inclusive, just, and joyful: This year, President
   Biden hosted the largest Pride celebration in White House history with
   LGBTQ+ families from across the country.

   And here at the Embassy and at our five Consulates, the past 12 months
   have been Pride Year.

   Last summer, we rolled out a series of Pride events to promote LGBTQIA+
   rights. We followed up throughout the year with multiple programs
   highlighting what together we are doing in the United States and
   Germany to advance equality for the LGBTQIA+ community both at home and
--

   Because both Germany and the United States have played meaningful roles
   in the fight for queer rights, we feel a special and joyful duty to
   celebrate Pride. We will avidly advocate for LGBTQI+ rights as often as
   possible right here at the U.S. Embassy in Berlin.

   Let us celebrate the transatlantic struggle for queer rights. Germany
   named its pride celebrations after a street in New York City.
   Christopher Street was the site of a despicable police raid and the
   courage to resist that oppression – and persist. Stonewall was a
   milestone in the American civil rights movement and it launched a
--
   ongoing discrimination is serious work.

   This evening, we could not be prouder than to continue our tradition of
   Pride programs in welcoming Germany’s anti-discrimination commissioner,
   Ferda Ataman.

   We know that history doesn’t just travel forward.  Advancing the gains
--
   rights of all people, everywhere. Let me propose a heartfelt toast: To
   a more LGBTQ plus perfect world!

     Amazing night celebrating #PrideMonth at the @usbotschaft with
     LGBTQIA+ friends. Let us be crystal clear: Queer rights are human
     rights! pic.twitter.com/mpiovdARd7</text>
</page> §
<page="en-25">
<text>
                          Hofstra University Athletics

   THE PRIDE OF LONG ISLAND

   Hofstra University main logo
   THE PRIDE OF LONG ISLAND
   (BUTTON)

Main Navigation Menu
--
   Tennis: News Volleyball Volleyball: Facebook Volleyball: Twitter
   Volleyball: Instagram Volleyball: Schedule Volleyball: Roster
   Volleyball: News Hofstra Athletics Staff Directory Mission Statement
   Athletic Facilities Athletic Facilities Rental Information Pride of
   Long Island NIL Exchange Hofstra4All - Diversity and Inclusion
   Compliance Student-Athlete Services and Academic Success
   Student-Athlete Advisory Committee (SAAC) Colonel E. David Woycik, Jr.
   (Ret) Esq. Pride Leadership Academy The Fried Center Strength and
   Conditioning Athletic Training / Sports Medicine Hall of Fame Retired
   Jerseys All-Americans Hofstra Athletics Social Media Directory Hofstra
   University Virtual Tour Corporate Partnerships Team Virtual Guides /
   Record Books Hofstra Athletics In The News HofstraTickets.com 2023-24
   Basketball Ticket Central Group Packages Donation Request TicketSmarter
   – Ticket Resale Marketplace Contact Us Ways Of Giving Donate Now Pride
   Club Events Hofstra Athletics Pride Club NCAA Compliance Young Alumni
   Hofstra Alumni

Sport Navigation Menu
--

   WTEN: 2024 Captains

Captains Announced For Pride

   12/14/2023 2:10:00 PM | By: Alexis Friedman
   Kaitlyn Ferguson, Deniz Soyer, and Lea Forste-Dinell
--

   Hempstead, NY - Hofstra University Head Women's Tennis Coach Tripp Tuff
   announced today three outstanding student-athletes who will serve as
   captains for the Pride during their 2024 season.
   Earning this incredible leadership role are: Kaitlyn Ferguson, Deniz
   Soyer, and Lea Forste-Dinell.
   "These three young women represent the change we are implementing
--
   are qualities I know will help take this program in a positive
   direction on and off the court."
   Ferguson, a junior from Lantana, Texas, led the team in singles
   victories during her first year with the Pride. She has been named to
   Hofstra's Dean's List, the CAA Commissioner's Academic Honor Roll, and
   an ITA Scholar-Athlete each of her last two years at Hofstra.
   A junior from Basildon, England, Soyer has compiled a career 11-32
--
   named to the Hofstra Athletic Director Scholars, and CAA Commissioner's
   Academic Honor Rolls each year, and has earned recognition as an ITA
   Scholar Athlete.
   Forste-Dinell, a junior from Stockholm, Sweden, joined the Pride this
   year after two seasons at the University of Illinois Chicago. There
   Forste-Dinell complied a career 20-18 record in singles and a career
   5-14 record in doubles play. She was named a 2023 ITA Scholar-Athlete
--
       Hofstra Competes At Fordham Invitational
     * Mary Madigan
       10.16.23
       Pride Concludes Hofstra Fall Invitational Against Stony Brook and
       FDU
     * Hofstra vs. UNCW CAA Championship 4/20/23
       10.09.23
       Pride Competes Against Northeast Opponents at ITA Regionals

Footer</text>
</page> §
<page="en-26">
<text>   [p?c1=2&amp;c2=6035250&amp;cv=2.0&amp;cj=1&amp;cs_ucfr=0&amp;comscorekw=Pride%2CLGBTQ%2B+ri
   ghts%2CStarbucks%2CWalmart%2CPepsico%2CMcDonald%27s%2CLos+Angeles+Dodge
   rs%2CJP+Morgan%2CGoogle%2CWalt+Disney+Company%2CCoca-Cola%2CBurger+King
   %2CApple%2CBank+of+America%2CWells+Fargo%2CBusiness] Skip to main
--
     * Inequality
     * Global development

   collage shows target's pride display, a group of people smiling, the LA
   dodgers logo in rainbow at the ballpark, and a bud light truck with
   rainbow pennants on it
   [ ]
--
   Some brands have maintained a strong commitment to visibly supporting
   LGBTQ+ rights, but others are celebrating more quietly than last year.
   Composite: The Guardian/Getty Images/Adidas/LA Dodgers Twitter
   Pride

Parades but no public posts: which brands are supporting Pride in the wake of
backlash?

   As Target, Bud Light, Starbucks and others face threats and boycotts,
--
     *
     *

   In recent years, Pride month has served as an opportunity for global
   brands to demonstrate their inclusivity – marching in parades, touting
   support for LGBTQ+ causes and blanketing merchandise in rainbow flags.

--
   corporations shrewdly supporting LGBTQ+ communities in more liberal
   territories for marketing purposes, without expending political or
   financial capital to stand by persecuted queer people around the world.
   The best US exhibitions and art events for Pride month
   Read more

   But the political environment in the US is shifting. Republican state
   legislatures are passing laws restricting LGBTQ+ rights and
   conservative media personalities are demonizing trans people. Some
   companies have faced a rightwing backlash over recent Pride promotions.
   After a promotional campaign with Dylan Mulvaney, a trans influencer,
   sparked a boycott of Bud Light, its parent company, Anheuser-Busch, put
   executives on leave and distanced itself from its own campaign. And
   last month, Target pulled some Pride-themed products off its shelves,
   saying customers had been threatening employees.

   Will pressure from the right cause prominent US companies to back down,
   despite track records of support for Pride? Some brands have maintained
   a strong commitment to visibly supporting the cause, but others are
   celebrating more quietly than last year – for instance, sponsoring
   parades but ignoring Pride on their social media accounts. Here’s what
   we know about their plans for 2023.

Adidas

   The company has already taken heat from the right this year over its
   choice of model for a traditionally feminine swimsuit. The swimsuit is
   included in the company’s 2023 Pride collection, in conjunction with
   the queer South African designer Rich Mnisi. Despite some furious
   anti-trans statements and calls for a boycott, the company has
   continued to promote the swimwear and, in a statement to USA Today,
   defended “a diverse line of models who bring the spirit of this
   collection to life”.
   three models on a beach
   Adidas and Rich Mnisi’s 2023 Pride campaign. Photograph: Adidas

Amazon

   The e-commerce site has participated in parades and concerts for Pride
   month. Last year, however, the Pride parade in its home town of Seattle
   cut ties over Amazon’s donations to politicians who have backed
   anti-LGBTQ+ legislation, according to Seattle Pride. The organization
   also opposed what it described as Amazon’s offer of $100,000 to get the
   parade named after itself. In response to a Guardian inquiry, the
   company said it had “nothing to share” on its plans for this year,
   though it is listed as a parade sponsor. Last year it posted Pride
   content on Instagram throughout the month of June. This year, as of 7
   June, the company has no posts about Pride on its grid (although
   smaller accounts like Amazon Music have been posting Pride content).

Anheuser-Busch

--
   agency, and a pair of executives were put on leave in late April. In
   past years, Anheuser-Busch has touted its support for LGBTQ+
   communities, partnering with LGBTQ+-owned businesses and promoting a
   rainbow-colored bottle. This year the company has yet to mention Pride
   on either the Budweiser or Bud Light Twitter accounts or Instagram
   grids. The company did not respond to a Guardian request for comment on
   its plans for Pride month, but it does appear to be quietly sponsoring
   some parades this year. It has also donated $200,000 to the National
   LGBT Chamber of Commerce amid criticism over its response to the
   boycott.
--
Apple

   The tech company, which has had a robust presence at its local San
   Francisco Pride parade, also works with a number of LGBTQ+
   organizations including the Human Rights Campaign, the National Center
   for Transgender Equality and the Trevor Project. For 2023, it is
   promoting a Pride-themed band for the Apple Watch, continuing a
   tradition of using Pride colors on the device that began in 2016 and
   was expanded with additional colors in 2021 to represent Black, Latino,
   trans and non-binary people.
   person poses while others watch
   New York City’s Pride march, 2021. Photograph: Marie Le Ble/ZUMA
   Wire/REX/Shutterstock

Bank of America

   The bank’s website has a detailed accounting of its support for LGBTQ+
   rights, and it has sponsored several major Pride parades in the past.
   It continues with parade sponsorships this year and celebrated 1 June
   on Instagram.

--

Coca-Cola

   The beverage company has sponsored major Pride parades and it continues
   to sell Pride-themed merchandise. It did not respond to a Guardian
   request for comment on its plans for this year, but it is listed as a
   sponsor of several parades.

Dick’s Sporting Goods

   The Pennsylvania-based retailer appears to have big plans for Pride
   2023, with a list of parades on its site. It’s also promoting a broad
   collection of Pride items.

Disney

--
   kindergarten to third grade. The company is also involved in a legal
   battle over control of its self-governing district, which the state
   sought to take over last year following Disney’s opposition to the
   “don’t say gay” measure. This year, it has a new Pride apparel
   collection and is planning two “Disneyland After Dark” Pride nights for
   the first time in June.

Google

   The tech company has held “virtual Pride parades”, which use
   smartphones and headsets to allow anyone to join a parade from wherever
   they are. It has also participated in and sponsored real-life ones,
   including this year. On 1 June, the main search site marked Pride with
   an article describing how the company is celebrating Pride, including
   highlighting certain apps and LGBTQ+ creators on YouTube.
   overhead view of baseball field
   Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles. Photograph: Gary A Vasquez/USA Today
--
JPMorgan Chase

   The bank describes itself as a longstanding supporter of the community,
   providing large donations to pro-LGBTQ+ causes, sponsoring Pride
   parades and working with advocacy groups. Last year, however, Pride
   Northwest, which is behind the Portland event, cut ties to the bank
   over its financial support for politicians backing anti-LGBTQ+ causes.
   In a statement to the Guardian, the company highlighted its recently
--

Kohl’s

   The department store is promoting Pride-themed clothing collections –
   and now faces a boycott akin to the backlash against Target, with
   opponents tweeting their fury about “Pride merch for babies”. Kohl’s
   did not reply to a request for comment, but as of Wednesday the items
   appeared to remain available, and on 1 June the company marked Pride
   month on its site and social media. Last year, Kohl’s was a “gold”
   level sponsor of the Pride parade in Milwaukee, where it is based, for
   the first time. It remains a gold sponsor this year.

Levi Strauss &amp; Co

   The San Francisco-based clothing company, which has participated in the
   city’s parade, has launched a Pride campaign and apparel line for this
   year. Asked whether rightwing pressure on other companies would affect
   the outfitter, a spokesperson said Levi’s was “continuing with its
   Pride collection and marketing as planned”.

Los Angeles Dodgers

--
   Republican senator Marco Rubio accused the group of being
   anti-Christian, the team rescinded its invitation – only to re-invite
   them amid anger from LGBTQ+ rights groups. The team apologized for the
   disinvitation. On 1 June, it marked Pride month on Instagram.

Mars

--

   The makeup company is also dealing with calls for a boycott for working
   with Mulvaney, after she posted a video of herself using its products.
   The website of its parent company, L’Oréal, lists Pride plans and
   affiliations involving a number of its brands, including parade
   participation and partnerships with LGBTQ+ organizations. Maybelline
   itself featured drag performers on its Instagram to celebrate 1 June.
--

   The fast-food chain has participated in various LGBTQ+-themed
   promotions, including fries with a rainbow box. This year, it will
   sponsor several Pride parades, including in Los Angeles and Dallas.

Miller Lite

   The Bud Light rival has a long history of support for LGBTQ+ causes and
   appears to be continuing with it this year. It touts “town halls” in
   various cities where bars serving the beer can work toward inclusivity
   and sponsors events including the Dallas Pride Miller Lite music
   festival. In a statement to the Guardian, Miller’s parent company,
   Molson Coors, said: “Everyone deserves to feel comfortable having a
   drink and being themselves. That’s why beer, wine and spirits companies
   like ours have supported Pride for decades, why we’ll do so in 2023 and
   why we’ll continue to do so for decades to come.”
   The ice is lit in rainbow light for Pride night before an NHL game
   between the Anaheim Ducks and the Los Angeles Kings in 2021.
   The ice is lit in rainbow light for Pride night before an NHL game
   between the Anaheim Ducks and the Los Angeles Kings in 2021.
   Photograph: Ashley Landis/AP

NHL

   Hockey teams have attempted to hold a number of Pride nights this year,
   only to see many players refuse to don Pride-themed jerseys. (In some
   cases, they may have had legal concerns given Russia’s anti-LGBTQ+
   laws; 5% of the league’s players are Russian.) Last year, the league
   promoted Pride month celebrations; its plans for this year are unclear.
   As of 7 June, it had not tweeted about Pride; last year, it posted to
   celebrate on 1 June.

Nike

   The athletic brand is continuing its Be True collection to mark Pride
   month.

North Face
--
   Like Adidas, the North Face is dealing with conservative calls for a
   boycott, led by the far-right congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene. In
   this case, the anger followed an ad campaign featuring the drag queen
   Pattie Gonia for the brand’s Summer of Pride campaign, featuring
   outdoor workshops, as well as its collection of Pride merchandise. The
   company defended the campaign in a statement to Fox News, saying it has
   “always believed the outdoors should be a welcoming, equitable and safe
   place for all. We are honored and grateful to support partners like
--

PepsiCo

   The beverage company has continued to broadcast its support for Pride
   online this year and is sponsoring the New York City Pride parade.

Starbucks

   The coffee company highlights its work on behalf of LGBTQ+ rights
   extensively on its website, including a timeline of its “history of
   inclusion”. This year, it is sponsoring Pride parades including in Los
   Angeles and San Diego. Meanwhile, it’s facing boycott calls after
   airing an ad in India celebrating a young person’s transition. In a
   statement to the Guardian, the company said it “unequivocally
--

Target

   The big-box retailer is offering an extensive Pride-themed apparel
   collection, but it has removed some items, citing threats to its
   employees. Experts have warned that the company’s decision could
   “embolden alt-right actors”, encouraging them to believe that threats
   and boycotts are effective. As of 1 June, it was promoting the Pride
   collection prominently on its website.

Donald Trump
--
   The former president offered an array of LGBTQ+-themed merchandise in
   2019, even as he barred trans troops from serving openly and sought to
   support companies seeking to skirt anti-discrimination laws. Believe it
   or not, this year there is no Pride merch available on his campaign
   site.

Walmart

   Despite threats to its big-box competitor Target, Walmart says it is
   not changing its own Pride collection: “We have merchandise that we
   sell all year that supports different groups.” The company, which also
   promoted Pride month on its site and social media, says it has not
   faced threats of its own.

Wells Fargo

   The bank proclaims its support for LGBTQ+ rights, calling itself an
   early leader in the movement. This year, it will “continue to honor and
   celebrate Pride Month by supporting local LGBTQ+ organizations in
   several cities across the country and hosting employee celebrations”,
   it said in a statement to the Guardian.

--
   promotion of a picture book called Big Wig, which tells a story about
   drag performers. Its parent company, Yum! Brands, did not respond to a
   request for comment about its plans for this year. On 1 June, the
   company posted on Twitter to celebrate Pride.
   Explore more on these topics
     * Pride
     * LGBTQ+ rights
     * Starbucks
     * Walmart</text>
</page> §
<page="en-27">
<text>   #alternate Store Owner Is Fatally Shot by Man Who Confronted Her About
   Pride Flag

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   U.S.
--

   Today’s Paper

   U.S.|Store Owner Is Fatally Shot by Man Who Confronted Her About Pride
   Flag
   https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/20/us/lake-arrowhead-california-pride-f
   lag-shooting.html
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
     * (BUTTON)
--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Store Owner Is Fatally Shot by Man Who Confronted Her About Pride Flag

   Laura Ann Carleton was described as “fearless” by her daughter, who
   said her mother died “defending something that was so important to
--
   on the sidewalk.
   Flowers and candles in front of a store in Cedar Glen, Calif., where
   the owner was fatally shot after a man made disparaging comments about
   a Pride flag she had displayed.Credit...Craig Fisse

   By Orlando Mayorquin
   Aug. 20, 2023

   Every time someone ripped down the rainbow Pride flag from the Mag.Pi
   clothing store in the San Bernardino mountains in California, the
   store’s owner, Laura Ann Carleton, responded by putting up a bigger
   one.
--
   Ms. Carleton, 66, did not waver in her support of L.G.B.T.Q. people.

   Around 5 p.m. on Friday, she was fatally shot by a man who made
   disparaging remarks about the shop’s Pride flag, the authorities said.

   The man, whom the police on Monday identified as Travis Ikeguchi, 27,
   ran off. Deputies found him with a handgun, and he was killed in an
--
   “She was just a force of nature,” Mr. Feig said, adding, “She just
   really cared about people.”

   The Pride flag hanging outside Mag.Pi was removed numerous times by
   different people since the store opened two years ago, Ari Carleton
   said.</text>
</page> §
<page="en-28">
<text>
     * Home
     * Fragrance
     * Givenchy Parfums opens metavese art exhibition for Pride

Givenchy Parfums opens metavese art exhibition for Pride

   By Sarah Parsons | Published: 22-Jun-2023
   Fragrance Marketing Digital
--
   association.

   Givenchy described its current initiative as part of its "commitment to
   the LGBT to the LGBTQIA+ community during every Pride Month''.

   The three artists chosen include Vanille Verloës, a French digital
   fashion designer and artist.</text>
</page> §
<page="en-29">
<text>
   U.S.

Republican attorneys general issue warning letter to Target about Pride
merchandise

   By Kerry Breen
--
     *
     *

   Target pulls some LGBTQ+ Pride items (BUTTON)

   Target pulls some LGBTQ+ Pride merchandise after backlash 06:18

   Seven U.S. state attorneys general sent a letter to Target on Wednesday
   warning that clothes and merchandise sold as part of the company's
   Pride month campaigns might violate their state's child protection
   laws.

   Republican attorneys general from Indiana, Arkansas, Idaho, Kentucky,
   Mississippi, Missouri and South Carolina signed the letter, writing
   that they were "concerned by recent events involving the company's
   'Pride' campaign."

   The attorneys said that they believed the campaign was a "comprehensive
   effort to promote gender and sexual identity among children,"
--
   should not tell parents about a child's gender or sexual orientation
   without consulting the child first, something the attorneys general
   said undermines "parents' constitutional and statutory rights."
   Take Pride, merchandise display, Target Store, Queens, New York "Take
   Pride" merchandise display at a Target store in Queens, New York. Getty
   Images

   The letter did not include any specific demands nor did it outline how
   they believe the campaign could violate child protection laws, but the
   attorneys general did suggest that Target might find it "more
   profitable to sell the type of Pride that enshrines the love of the
   United States."

   The attorneys general also said they believed Target's Pride campaign
   threatened their financial interests, writing that Target leadership
   has a "fiduciary duty to our States as shareholders in the company" and
   suggesting that company officials "may be negligent" in promoting the
--
   to some backlash among customers.

   Target shares have declined 12% this year, but the company is facing
   issues far beyond the backlash to its Pride collection, which included
   onesies, bibs, and T-shirts for babies and children. Like many
   retailers, the company is struggling with a pullback in consumer
   spending because of high inflation, which has weighed on its profits.

   But Target is also facing scrutiny for its merchandise selection,
   including its Pride line, with its stores removing some of the items in
   May after facing threats. At the time, the company didn't specify which
   products were being removed, although Target has faced criticism online
   over swimsuits advertised as "tuck-friendly" with "extra crotch
   coverage" in its Pride collection.

   "Target's management has no duty to fill stores with objectionable
   goods, let alone endorse or feature them in attention-grabbing displays
--
   shareholders to prudently manage the company and act loyally in the
   company's best interests."

   Backlash to the Pride campaign did involve threats of violence to
   Target stores and workers. Some merchandise was relocated to less
   popular areas of the store, and other pieces, including the swimsuits
   criticized by the attorneys general, were removed.
--
   are.
   Carrefour pulls Doritos and other PepsiCo products from shelves
   In:
     * Pride
     * Pride Month
     * Target

   First published on July 7, 2023 / 2:23 PM EDT</text>
</page> §
<page="en-3">
<text>
   Everyday Power >gt; Inspirational Quotes

70 Pride Quotes to Inspire Confidence in Yourself

   Stephanie Kirby
   By Stephanie Kirby | Published May 9, 2022

   Are you lacking a little confidence?

   It might be time to get in touch with your pride.

   These pride quotes will inspire you into action.

   What do you think of when you hear the word “pride”?

   Many people think of “pride” as being something bad, as in “pride goes
   before the fall”.

   And while it’s true that pride can become negative if you are too
   caught up in it, it’s also important.

   Having pride in yourself, your abilities, and even your surroundings
   can be motivating towards action.

   When people are proud of where they live, they help take care of it.
--
   When a person is proud of their abilities, they aren’t afraid to step
   out and put it to use.

   Healthy pride can build up your confidence as shown in these pride
   quotes.

   Check out our most popular quote article, a list of short inspirational
--
   Check out our inspirational quotes category page for more inspirational
   life quotes.

Pride quotes on the connection between confidence and pride

   1. “Remember, you have been criticizing yourself for years, and it
   hasn’t worked. Try approving of yourself and see what happens.” –
   Louise L. Hay
   pride quotes about approving of yourself and see what happens

   You will also enjoy our article on be yourself quotes.

   2. “One who knows himself is never disturbed by what you think about
   him.” – Osho
   pride quotes about one who knows himself is never disturbed by what you
   think about him

   You will also enjoy our article on proud of you quotes.

   3. “Every woman that finally figured out her worth has picked up her
   suitcases of pride and boarded a flight to freedom, which landed in the
   valley of change.” – Shannon L. Alder
   pride quotes from Shannon L. Alder

   You will also enjoy our article on Pulp Fiction quotes.

   4. “Until you value yourself, you won’t value your time. Until you
   value your time, you will not do anything with it.” — M. Scott Peck
   pride quotes about until you value yourself

   You will also enjoy our article on arrogant quotes.

   5. “Understand: You should be radiating confidence, not arrogance or
   disdain.” – Robert Greene
   pride quotes about confidence

   You will also enjoy our article on self acceptance quotes.

   6. “The world will never value you more than you value yourself.” –
   Bill Masur
   pride quotes about the world will never value you more than you value
   yourself

   You will also enjoy our article on Osho quotes.
--
   7. “Love yourself first and everything else falls into line. You really
   have to love yourself to get anything done in this world.” – Lucille
   Ball
   pride quotes about love yourself

   8. “Don’t be ashamed of anything you’ve gone through. Be proud of
   everything you’ve overcome!” – Phil McGraw
   pride quotes about be proud of everything you’ve overcome!

   9. “You may not control all the events that happen to you, but you can
   decide not to be reduced by them.” – Maya Angelou
   pride quotes about you may not control all the events that happen to
   you

Pride quotes on what it means to be proud

   10. “Pride is holding your head up when everyone around you has theirs
   bowed. Courage is what makes you do it.” ― Bryce Courtenay
   pride quotes about courage is what makes you do it

   11. “Pride helps us, and pride is not a bad thing when it only urges us
   to hide our own hurts—not to hurt others.” ― George Eliot
   pride quotes about not to hurt others

   12. “A healthy self-love means we have no compulsion to justify to
   ourselves or others why we take vacations, why we sleep late, why we
   buy new shoes, why we spoil ourselves from time to time. We feel
   comfortable doing things which add quality and beauty to life.” –
   Andrew Matthews
   pride quotes about a healthy self-love

   13. “Who you are inside is what helps you make and do everything in
   life.” – Fred Rogers
   pride quotes about who you are inside is what helps you make and do
   everything in life

   14. “Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often
   used synonymously. A person may be proud without being vain. Pride
   relates more to our opinion of ourselves, vanity to what we would have
   others think of us.” ― Jane Austen
   pride quotes about vanity and pride are different things

Pride quotes about self-confidence

   15. “I do not care so much what I am to others as I care what I am to
   myself.” ― Michel de Montaigne
   pride quotes about self confidence

   16. “Don’t do things that you know are morally wrong. Not because
   someone is watching, but because you are. Self-esteem is just the
   reputation that you have with yourself. You’ll always know.” – Naval
   Ravikant
   pride quotes about self-esteem is just the reputation

   17. “You’re always with yourself, so you might as well enjoy the
   company.” – Diane Von Furstenberg
   pride quotes about enjoying the company

   18. You yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe, deserve
   your love and affection.” – Buddha
   pride quotes about deserve your love and affection

   19. “One’s dignity may be assaulted, vandalized and cruelly mocked, but
   it can never be taken away unless it is surrendered.” – Michael J. Fox
   pride quotes from Michael J. Fox

   20. “All your life, other people will try to take your accomplishments
   away from you. Don’t you take it away from yourself.” ― Michael
   Crichton
   pride quotes about all your life

   21. “Don’t spend all of your time trying to FIND yourself. Spend your
   time CREATING yourself into a person that you’ll be proud of.” – Sonya
   Parker
   pride quotes about finding yourself

   22. Remember always that you not only have the right to be an
   individual, you have an obligation to be one.” – Eleanor Roosevelt
   pride quotes about obligation to be one

   23. “Too many people overvalue what they are not and undervalue what
   they are.” – Malcolm S. Forbes
   pride quotes about too many people overvalue what they are not and
   undervalue what they are

   24. “Respect your uniqueness, and drop comparison. Relax into your
   being.” – Osho
   If you’re enjoying these quotes, you’ll love our collection of Osho
   quotes on how to live life and find inspiration.
   pride quotes about respect your uniqueness, and drop comparision

   25. “Self-esteem begins with self-understanding, grows with courage and
   perseverance, ends with confidence.” – Maxime Lagacé
   pride quotes about self-esteem and confidence

   26. “Why should we worry about what others think of us, do we have more
   confidence in their opinions than we do our own?” – Brigham Young
--
   27. Self-esteem is made up primarily of two things: feeling lovable and
   feeling capable.” – Jack Canfield

Pride quotes on not allowing confidence to turn into the wrong kind of pride

   28. “Confidence turns into pride only when you are in denial of your
   mistakes.” – Criss Jami

   29. “Ignorance and power and pride are a deadly mixture, you know.” ―
   Robert Fulghum

   30. “The pride of aiming at more knowledge, and pretending to more
   perfection, is the cause of Man’s error and misery.” — Alexander Pope

   31. “Don’t let compliments mess with your head or criticism mess with
--
   you’re wrong and you can’t face it; the other is when you’re right and
   nobody else can face it.” ― Criss Jami

   33. “With pride, there are many curses. With humility, there come many
   blessings.” – Ezra Taft Benson

   34. “If you see anything in yourself which may make you proud, look a
--
   35. “If someone corrects you, and you feel offended, then you have an
   ego problem.” ― Nouman Ali Khan

   36. “Generosity is giving more than you can, and pride is taking less
   than you need.” ― Khalil Gibran

   37. “I could easily forgive his pride if he had not mortified mine.” ―
   Jane Austen

   38. “Pride comes before the fall. Stay humble.” – Unknown

   39. “Be careful, ever so careful, in trumpeting your own achievements,
   and always talk less about yourself than about other people. Modesty is
   generally preferable.” – Robert Greene

   40. “It is better to lose your pride with someone you love rather than
   to lose that someone you love with your useless pride.” ― John Ruskin

More pride quotes

   41. “When you feel nervous, recall your pride.” ― Toba Beta

   42. “It requires strength to accept yourself, and to be proud of
   yourself when you’re aware there’s something extraordinary about you.”
--

   44. “Embrace the glorious mess that you are.” – Elizabeth Gilbert

   45. “Pain goes away, pride lasts forever.” – Unknown

   46. Self-esteem isn’t everything; it’s just that there’s nothing
   without it.” – Gloria Steinem
--
   you come alive. And then go do that. Because what the world needs are
   people who have come alive.” – Harold Whitman

   Pride Quotes To Celebrate One’s Accomplishments

   51. “Few people can walk in your shoes. You are the only one that knows
   your obstacles, challenges, and struggles. Be proud of yourself and the
--
   Patricia Velasquez

   56. “If you want to be proud of yourself, then do things in which you
   can take pride.” — Karen Horney

   57. “Be proud of your scars. They remind you that you have the will to
   live.” – Paulo Coelho
--
   60. “If you do something awesome, you should be proud of yourself.” –
   Damon Lindelof

Pride Quotes Perfect For Your Next Post

   61. “I’ve always been someone who believes in being real and embraces
   my imperfections with pride rather than covering it up.” — Zareen Khan

   62. “Pride will spit in pride’s face.” — Thomas Fuller

   63. “I always take pride in the fact that nobody can mess with me, and
   I never let anybody mess with me my entire life.” — Dean Ambrose

   64. “The greatest pride, or the greatest despondency, is the greatest
   ignorance of one’s self.” — Baruch Spinoza

   65. “It was pride that changed angels into devils; it is humility that
   makes men as angels.” — Augustine of Hippo

   66. “It’s a fine thing to rise above pride, but you must have pride in
   order to do so.” — Georges Bernanos

   67. “It was pride that changed angels into devils; it is humility that
   makes men as angels.” — Augustine of Hippo

   68. “I pride myself on being a good friend, and all my friends can
   attest to that.” — Kyle Richards

   69. “Pride. You have it where you can have it.” ― Marilyn French

   70. “Pride is pleasure arising from a man’s thinking too highly of
   himself.” — Baruch Spinoza

What did you learn from these pride quotes?

   Can you feel your confidence growing just reading through the pride
   quotes above?

   Remember, you don’t have to be perfect in order to have pride in who
   you are.

   Stop comparing yourself to everyone else.
--
   Choose your favorite quote or two and post them up in places where
   you’ll see them throughout the day.

   What’s your biggest takeaway from these pride quotes and sayings?

   Do you have any other helpful quotes to add?</text>
</page> §
<page="en-30">
<text>
                          Hofstra University Athletics

   THE PRIDE OF LONG ISLAND

   Hofstra University main logo
   THE PRIDE OF LONG ISLAND
   (BUTTON)

Main Navigation Menu
--
   Tennis: News Volleyball Volleyball: Facebook Volleyball: Twitter
   Volleyball: Instagram Volleyball: Schedule Volleyball: Roster
   Volleyball: News Hofstra Athletics Staff Directory Mission Statement
   Athletic Facilities Athletic Facilities Rental Information Pride of
   Long Island NIL Exchange Hofstra4All - Diversity and Inclusion
   Compliance Student-Athlete Services and Academic Success
   Student-Athlete Advisory Committee (SAAC) Colonel E. David Woycik, Jr.
   (Ret) Esq. Pride Leadership Academy The Fried Center Strength and
   Conditioning Athletic Training / Sports Medicine Hall of Fame Retired
   Jerseys All-Americans Hofstra Athletics Social Media Directory Hofstra
   University Virtual Tour Corporate Partnerships Team Virtual Guides /
   Record Books Hofstra Athletics In The News HofstraTickets.com 2023-24
   Basketball Ticket Central Group Packages Donation Request TicketSmarter
   – Ticket Resale Marketplace Contact Us Ways Of Giving Donate Now Pride
   Club Events Hofstra Athletics Pride Club NCAA Compliance Young Alumni
   Hofstra Alumni

Sport Navigation Menu
--

   2024 Women's Lacrosse Captains

Captains Announced For Pride In 2024

   11/2/2023 11:30:00 AM
     *
--

   Hempstead, NY - Hofstra University Head Women's Lacrosse Coach Shannon
   Smith announced today a group of five outstanding student-athletes who
   will serve as captains for the Pride during the 2024 campaign.
   Earning this important leadership role are: Kate Fiola, Brynn Hepting,
   Ashlyn McDonald, Taylor Mennella, and Trinity Reed.
   "We are so thrilled with this group of women to lead us this season,"
--
   This marks the second year as captains for Fiola and Mennella, while
   the other three are all first-time captains.
   Fiola, a graduate student from Massapequa, New York, has played in 45
   games for the Pride. She has 25 career points on 16 goals and nine
   assists, while also adding 49 ground balls and 18 caused turnovers.
   Hepting, a junior from Towson, Maryland, has appeared in and started 30
   games and has totaled 42 draw controls, 26 ground balls, and 19 caused
--
       Sconone Named To U.S. Women’s Box Training Team
     * WLAX Huddle
       08.02.23
       Pride Adds A Pair Of Transfers

Footer</text>
</page> §
<page="en-31">
<text>   [p?c1=2&amp;c2=6035250&amp;cv=2.0&amp;cj=1&amp;cs_ucfr=0&amp;comscorekw=Art%2CLGBTQ%2B+righ
   ts%2CPride%2CExhibitions%2CArt+and+design%2CCulture] Skip to main
   contentSkip to navigationSkip to navigation

   Print subscriptions
--
   Photograph: David Fenton/Getty Images
   Art

The best US exhibitions and art events for Pride month

   This year’s annual celebration of LGBTQ+ culture and history offers up
   a diverse set of exhibitions, screenings and happenings
--
     *
     *

   With Pride Month now upon us, festivities across the United States will
   create safe spaces while celebrating the lives and journeys of LGBTQ+
   individuals everywhere. In addition to the countless Pride parades and
   festivities, queer creators and their art will also be centered this
   year – many art galleries, museums and other art spaces will be staging
   amazing art exhibitions, movie screenings and more throughout the month
--
   Gabriel García Román, whose vivid multimedia art presents layers of
   queer identity on individual portraits.

Pride at Mia

   A still from Kiki.
   A still from Kiki. Photograph: PR

   The Minneapolis Institute of Art offers a variety of events to bring
   Pride to museumgoers. Festivities kick off on 2 June with a gathering
   in the park capped off by a screening of Kiki, seen by many critics as
   a sequel of sorts to the landmark documentary Paris Is Burning, updated
   for an era of Black Lives Matter and renewed focus on trans rights.
   Another must-see event is the 22 June Pride Panel and Activations,
   featuring local artists including Kehayr Brown-Ransaw, Trista Marie
   McGovern, Julia Starr, giving them space to share details of the
   intersection of their artistic practices and queer identities.

Pride Not Prejudice

   A group show of 28 LGBTQ+ California artists, Pride Not Prejudice is
   the jewel in the Sausalito Art Center’s Pride festivities. The show is
   headlined by Homosocial, a project by artist Brian Van Camerik in which
   he takes photos of same-gendered couples and displays them in various
   forms, including homemade reliquaries, offering a deep dive into the
--
   artist practice draws from cartoons and breaks down stereotypes around
   Black individuals.

Pride: In Retrospect

   An installation image from Pride: In Retrospect.
   An installation image from Pride: In Retrospect. Photograph: Newport
   Art Museum

   The Newport Art Museum offers audiences a photographic journey through
--
   Stonewall uprising of 1969 – largely credited with launching the modern
   fight for equality in the LGBTQ+ community – and the first Queer
   Liberation March of 1970, which marked the first anniversary of
   Stonewall and is widely known as the first annual June Pride parade.
   Images on display include activists marching at the 1980 New York Pride
   Parade, a memorial to the Pulse nightclub atrocity, and the historic
   Stonewall Inn.

--
   scuba diving; and Théo Nguyen, a queer Vietnamese American artist
   working in watercolors, gouache, pencils and the iPad app Procreate.

Take Pride! A Retrospective of LGBTQ+ Life in South Florida

   Fort Lauderdale’s Take Pride! offers a photographic exhibit during
   Pride month chronicling the struggle for equal rights in south Florida,
   as well as the development of the thriving LGBTQ+ community in the
   area, covering the 1940s through the present. On view of Galleria Fort
   Lauderdale, the show of photographs, video, archival costumes and more
--
   screening of the award-winning short film Open Dialogues, an oral
   history documenting voices from the LGBTQ+ community.

Pride at Whitney

   An image from The Stroll.
   An image from The Stroll. Photograph: HBO
--
   the month, walking tours led from the Whitney will explore the queer
   history of the neighborhood around the museum.

WeHo Pride Arts Festival

   West Hollywood’s signature Pride celebration offers a month-long arts
   festival with exhibitions, marketplaces, performances and more. The
   digital art Angelic Troublemakers Exhibition runs all month at the West
   Hollywood library, while the Indigenous Korean American transgender
--
   Explore more on these topics
     * Art
     * LGBTQ+ rights
     * Pride
     * Exhibitions
     * features</text>
</page> §
<page="en-32">
<text>   Search Pittwire
   Search
   Search www.pitt.edu
   Four students holding pride flags on the lawn in front of the Cathedral
   of Learning
   Features &amp; Articles

Catch these Pittsburgh Pride Month events

   June 12, 2023
   Tags
--
   Pittsburgh.
   Subscribe

   Pride Month, held each June in commemoration of the Stonewall Uprising,
   is a time for all people to come together to recognize LGBTQ+
   resilience and societal contributions. Explore these local events and
   resources to celebrate and uplift the community.
--
   LGBTQIA+ Banned Book Club will receive a free copy of “Gender Queer: A
   Memoir” by Maia Kobabe. Register to attend.

A day of neighborhood pride

Saturday, June 17, various times

   There are plenty of opportunities to share and show off your pride no
   matter your neighborhood. Check out free festivals in Mt. Lebanon,
   Bellevue and Lawrenceville, which is hosting its first pride event this
   year.

Celebrate with Pitt organizations

Tuesday, June 20, 11 a.m.-2 p.m.

   Discover departments and resources from across the University at Pride
   on the Patio. Also enjoy free food and take-away items as you gather on
   the William Pitt Union patio and lawn. No registration is required for
   attendees, but there’s still time to reserve a table for your
--

Saturday, June 24, 10 a.m.-11 p.m.

   This year marks the third annual Pride Millvale, a free event in the
   Pittsburgh neighborhood. The volunteer-led festival will host community
   partners, nonprofits, health and wellness resources and a variety of
   vendors.

A pride parade for the people

Sunday, June 25, 10 a.m.

   March through Pittsburgh’s Swissvale neighborhood with SisTers PGH
   during the nonprofit’s annual People’s Pride event. The march will
   conclude at Dickson Elementary School, where an outdoor festival will
   showcase five local artists as well as headliner Durand Bernarr. Event
   programming this year is focused around improving housing access in
--

   — Nora Smith, photography by Aimee Obidzinski

The meaning of Pride

   Fifty-four years ago, something important happened that changed the way
   people think about LGBTQIA+ rights. It started at the Stonewall Inn in
--
   years after the riots, she helped create organizations and policies
   that support LGBTQIA+ rights.

   Today, we celebrate this movement every June during Pride Month. Pride
   is not just about parades and celebrations. It's about recognizing the
   power and resilience of the LGBTQIA+ community. Pride is about family,
   community, accepting ourselves, being visible and embracing who we are.
   It reminds us that everyone has the right to be themselves and be
   treated with respect.
--
   to our workspaces, enables us to ask important questions, speak up and
   make positive changes.

   Pride encourages us to break free from the stereotypes and biases that
   limit us. It reminds us that our identities are complex and should be
   celebrated. Sometimes society tries to make us fit into one narrow box,
   but Pride encourages us to be who we are meant to be — not just survive
   but thrive.

   Pride is for everyone, not just LGBTQIA+ individuals. Stretch yourself
   to come together, support one another and work towards a world where
   everyone is treated equally. How can you do this in your space and
   place of work? While we should practice LGBTQIA+ inclusion throughout
   the year, June offers many opportunities at Pitt and in the region to
   get involved and show support for the LGBTQIA+ community.

Learn more about Pride Month

   If you’re unfamiliar with the history behind Pride celebrations and
   LGBTQ+ liberation, June is an excellent time to learn. These resources
   can help:
     * LGBTQIA+ at Pitt</text>
</page> §
<page="en-33">
<text>
   Menu Close

15 Subtle Signs of Pride In Your Life

   How do you measure pride in your life? This article provide 15 not so
   obvious ways to assess the level of pride present in our lives.

   I STRUGGLE WITH PRIDE! There, I said it! Many of us would like to think
   of ourselves as humble individuals. But the more you walk with Jesus
   the more He shows you the areas you need to grow in. You might be
   surprised to know that there are many ways that pride can creep into
   our lives and I want to caution us all to be on guard against these. I
   think it’s safe to say that God HATES pride because it reminds Him of
   the original sin in heaven when Lucifer sinned and became Satan (Eze.
   28:12-15; Isa. 14:12-15; Rev. 12:1-3). The following is a checklist of
   15 indicators as to how pride can manifest itself in our lives. As you
   read this I encourage you to take an honest assessment as to whether
   these actions or mentalities are consistently manifested in your life.
   Here we go!
--
#1 – Assuming you already know something when someone is teaching

   When you immediately tune someone out who starts teaching you something
   that you may be somewhat familiar with, that is an example of pride. It
   is the assumption that you know everything about the subject being
   communicated and that this person, whom you see as inferior in
   knowledge to you, cannot teach you something new.
--

   When someone asks you to do something and your immediate thought is,
   “I, out of all people, shouldn’t have to do that. That task is for
   someone else.” That is a sign of pride that we should consider dealing
   with. Next time this thought arises ask yourself,

     If Jesus was willing to leave heaven and come to earth for me, then
--
   There is something to be said for independence. However, there are
   times in life when we must all admit that something is beyond our
   capacity and that we need help. The unwillingness to recognize our own
   shortcomings and need for help is a sign of pride.


#4 – Feeling the Need to Consistently Teach People Things
--
   Have you ever been in a group where someone feels the needs to dominate
   the conversation and seemingly spill everything they know without
   giving other people the opportunity to share? Sometimes this can be a
   sign of pride because when a person knows something that they know most
   other people don’t know much about, it creates a sense of pride within
   them.


#5 – Talking about Yourself a Lot

   When you talk a lot about your accomplishments, your education, title,
   position, and/or financial status, that is a sign of pride. The Bible
   says, “Be quick to listen and slow to speak…” (James 1:19). When we
   talk about ourselves a lot it reveals that we have not yet learned how
   to come up out of ourselves and focus on the interests of others (Phil.
--
   This is when we tend to put others down often because there is a
   deep-seated need for us to feel better about ourselves. People who are
   critical are that way because they secretly see themselves as exempt
   from the very same things they criticize others. This is pride.


#9 – Consistent need for Attention and Affirmation
--
   When someone constantly needs to be the center of attention in public
   or secretly craves consistent affirmation for their accomplishments,
   looks, personality, serving, intelligence, and/or physique, this is a
   sign of pride.


#10 – Unable to receive constructive criticism

   When a person struggles to allow other people to speak into their lives
   and provide helpful feedback it is a sign of pride because they are too
   blinded by their own pride to see the value in what someone is sharing
   with them and how it can help make them a better person.


--
   person is constantly obsessed with how they look and they like to
   flaunt their figure/physique in front of others with the hopes that
   people will notice and gawk at them, this is vanity which is yet
   another form of pride.


#12 – Unwilling to submit to authority
--
   When you consistently associate yourself with people who have prominent
   positions and publicly drop it in conversations in hopes that people
   will think you are equally as important as the people you associate
   yourself with, this is a very subtle form of pride.


SUMMARY

   Whew! So, as you can see pride is something that can creep into your
   life in various subtle ways. A great story in the Bible to study about
   pride is about a man named King Uzziah in 2 Chronicles 26. I encourage
   you read/study it in its entirety. Once again, I encourage you to check
   your heart against this list and ask God to help you identify some ways
   that you struggle with pride and how you can exhibit more humility in
   your life.

Share this post</text>
</page> §
<page="en-34">
<text>                                   * Corporate Gifts
                                   * Gift Certificates

Subtle Signs of Pride in your Co-workers, Spouse, Family, Church Staff and
Everybody Else Around You

The Secretly Prideful Person
                           By Ronald McDonald
                           A friend told me the other day that I’m a very
                           prideful man, and I said to myself, "Dude's
                           just jealous". So I told my wife what he said
                           and she said, "Ah, come on. You're a humble
                           man. Seriously. You're not cocky and flashy and
                           arrogant and all that." But later that same
                           week, I was reading a book that said the most
                           prideful people aren’t usually the bragging
                           arrogant types. They’re the nice friendly
                           helpful ones at work.
                           That got me to thinking that maybe my
                           definition of pride wasn’t very complete. Now I
                           really wondered, What are examples of
                           pride? So, I googled “Signs of pride list” and
                           “Spiritual pride” and couldn’t believe what I
                           found. I was all over the list. I read about 40
                           articles and lists written by well-known
                           psychologists, theologians, pastors and even
                           the Wikipedia entry and consolidated them all
                           here. I put them into 4 groups; Pride of
                           Spirituality, Pride of Knowledge, Pride
                           of Power and Pride of Appearance. So I went
                           back to my wife and said, "Hey honey, I think I
                           found out the root of all of our problems in
                           marriage and work and ministry and all that.
                           ME!!! I'm the problem. Listen to this list of
                           signs of pride that I found." I started reading
                           my list to her and she laughed and said, "Wow!
                           You are prideful. I didn't know that's what
                           pride looked like." So I asked her to pray for
                           me. And then said, "Oh, and there were some
                           other signs that I found on the list." Her jaw
                           dropped as I read hers. She said, "Oh no! I
                           didn't realize I was so prideful either. Will
                           you pray for me too?"
                           God had been resisting me. It was like his palm
                           was firmly planted in my forehead as I walked
--
                           unmerited favor) to the humble. Could it be
                           that God is resisting you in your relationships
                           or business or church or whatever area of your
                           life? Only by pride comes contention.
                           There are about 24 different categories one
                           could be prideful in. Most people are pretty
                           humble in most categories and just prideful in
                           one or two. You’ll see your relatives, spouse,
                           boss, employees, friends and president all over
                           this list. But don't forget this. Pride is one
                           of the most destructive and heinous sins you
                           can commit.
                           My dad used to say, “The reason we shouldn’t
--
                           should try not to sin because it hurts our
                           relationship with God.
                           Ever heard this? “Yeah, maybe I’ve got a little
                           pride. But if you want to get along with me
                           you’ve just got to grow a pair. It’s just the
                           way I am and you’ll just have to deal with it”.
                           For you to know you have even a little bit
                           of pride and not care about it, is to raise
                           your fist in God’s face and say, “Hey God, I
                           don’t care that I’m regularly walking and
                           living in this sin of pride and I’m okay with
                           not having all that great of a relationship
                           with you either”. If that’s you, then watch
                           out. God is resisting you and you have some
--
                           abhors, tears down, brings down. has scattered,
                           is scornful to, reprimands, will punish, is
                           angry at, every arrogant person, those who have
                           a proud look, those whose pride wells up,
                           arrogant scoffers. “The prideful man – ‬‭will
                           be brought low, humiliated, disgraced, doomed,
                           destroyed, humbled, will not go unpunished, was
                           deposed from his royal throne and his honor was
--
                           2:11,12‬‭‬,10:12, 2 Chr. 32:25, Dan.‬ ‭5:20,
                           Luke 1:51, James 4:6. This is a really serious
                           thing.
                           We’ll never conquer pride, but if we know what
                           it looks like when it flares up, we can knock
                           it back down before too much damage is done. If
                           people can’t recognize what the signs of cancer
                           look like, then they'll never know they need
                           help. I hope this list helps you understand
                           what pride looks like as much as it's helped
                           me.

How They Define Pride
                           Our SELF or Ego is basically who we are as a
                           person. It’s not good or bad, it’s just what
                           makes us, us. Unhealthy pride happens when we
                           do or say things for the purpose of people
                           praising our SELF or for making our SELF feel
                           good or putting our SELF ahead of someone
                           else's SELF. Pride wants our SELF to be
                           praised, get glory, be worshiped and be highly
                           talked about, even when we’re not in the room.
                           Unhealthy pride can give us an elevated view of
                           our own SELF that is not accurate, but we truly
                           start to believe it and act to reinforce what
                           we've come to believe as true. And when someone
                           questions or challenges the view of our SELF as
                           not accurate, the fireworks begin.
                           Here are some of the definitions of pride I
                           found
                              - Pride is being SELF-ish
                              - Thinking excessively about SELF
                              - Pride’s base is too much SELF-love
                              - Thinking the worth of our SELF is higher
                                than it actually is
                              - SELF-worship
                              - Preoccupation with our image or SELF
                              - Pride is narcissism (in love with our
                                image or SELF)
                              - Pride is SELF-centered or EGO-centric
                                (everything revolves around us)
                              - Pride wants to keep the focus on SELF
                              - SELF-ness
                           "Satan disguises submission to himself under
                           the ruse of personal autonomy. He never asks us
--
                           of sin." - Dennis F. Kinlaw (1922 - 2017)
                           “Instead of being motivated by SELF-ish
                           ambition or vanity, each of you should, in
                           humility (THE OPPOSITE OF PRIDE OR SELF-ISH),
                           be moved to treat one another as more important
                           than your SELF. Each should be concerned not
                           only about your own interests, but about the
--
                           envious. Love does not brag, it is not puffed
                           up. It is not rude, it is not SELF-serving, it
                           is not easily angered or resentful." (All
                           the negatives are symptoms of pride) I
                           Corinthians 13:4-5
                           The same list of examples of what pride looks
                           like, is here twice, one after the other. The
                           first list immediately below does not have much
                           explanation attached to the signs of pride.
                           Further down the page is the same list, but
                           with a much fuller explanation of each sign of
                           pride with some links to deeper
                           explanations. If you don’t agree, then google
                           “pride defensiveness” or "pride depression” or
                           “pride low self esteem” or “pride critical” to
                           learn why so many people consider it a sign of
                           pride. But be careful not to judge a person's
                           heart because of their actions or words. You
                           can't always tell. A friend of mine, who is a
                           huge servant and genuinely humble, told me that
--
                           they think I'm humble". Don't try to play God
                           and judge the heart.

Pride of Spirituality
                           Try really hard to confirm the fact that
                           they’re spiritual
                           Asceticism - They reject money, pleasure, joy,
--
                                absolutely have no intention of praying
                                for it. But it sounds spiritual for sure.
                           False Humility - Humility is seeing yourself
                           and what you do the way it actually is. Pride
                           is not seeing yourself or what you do the way
                           it actually is.
                             1. Don’t accept compliments, but instead say,
--
                             3. Tell you that they’re humble, “In my
                                humble opinion”

Pride of Knowledge
                           Try really hard to confirm the fact that
                           they’re smart
                           Unteachable
--
                                political beliefs
                           Defensive when corrected or criticized - If you
                           ever get defensive in marriage, then you have
                           pride and it has to be dealt with. We think the
                           best defense is a great offense when our pride
                           is hurt. “With pride comes only
                           contention...”Proverbs‬ ‭13:10
                             1. Attack back when questioned or confronted
                                about a mistake or wrong
--
                             5. Don’t show much mercy
                             6. Mean spirited

Pride of Power
                           Try really hard to confirm the fact that
                           they’re capable. “But once he became powerful,
                           his pride destroyed him. He disobeyed the LORD
                           his God...” ‭‭2 Chronicles‬ ‭26:16‬
                           Controlling - Being obeyed gives their SELF a
                           nice feeling, sense of power
--
                                SELF feeling good
                           Low SELF-esteem or SELF-worth - Humility is
                           seeing your own SELF the way it actually is.
                           Pride is not seeing your own SELF the way it
                           actually is
                             1. Constantly thinking of their SELF and what
                                others think about it
--
                           Depression - There are a lot of legitimate
                           medical and traumatic reasons for depression.
                           Focus on SELF and believing what’s not true
                           about their SELF is a very common one. Pride is
                           a major cause of depression for hundreds of
                           millions of people (much more about why this is
                           here, on the second list)
--
                                things or success won’t happen
                             5. Believe other people are envious of them

Pride of Appearance
                           Try really hard to impress people with their
                           looks or physique - Synonyms - Narcissistic,
                           SELF-love, Conceited, SELF-glorification,
--
                           Two things to remember:
                           1. Don't shoot the messenger. I'm just
                           reporting the facts, ma'am. These signs of
                           pride are what I found and copied down and
                           then consolidated here for your reading
                           pleasure. Most were on several of the lists.
                           2. If you only saw your SELF in a couple of
                           places on this list, then you just have a
                           little bit of cancer. You need to be desperate
                           for treatment. Everyone is infected with Pride.
                           Don't be okay with it. This is serious.
                            “But then Hezekiah and the residents of
                           Jerusalem humbled themselves and abandoned
                           their pride, and the LORD was not angry with
                           them for the rest of Hezekiah’s reign." ‭‭2
                           Chronicles‬ ‭32:26
                           “if my people who are called by my name humble
--
                           said, “repentant or remorseful”. When my wife
                           and I read the list and saw ourselves on it in
                           some places, we immediately pleaded with God to
                           help us keep our pride down and be more humble.
                           We don’t want it at all and we are really sorry
                           that we have been so prideful for so long. And
                           now we question ourselves all the time, “Is
                           what I’m about to say or what I just said,
                           prideful? Because we really don’t want to be
                           prideful, even though we still act pridefully.
                           But a lot less. This is exactly what God wants
                           from us. A humble spirit and a contrite heart.
                           "For thus says the High and Lofty One Who
--
                           spirit of the humble, And to revive the heart
                           of the contrite ones.'" – Isaiah 57:15

Three Pride Illustrations

Fighter in the Ring
                           We are in a fight with Prideman, a 600 lb 1%
                           body fat former Navy Seal, who has us by
                           the ankles slamming us down over and over
                           again. It’s a tag team match and God is
--
                           keep on saying, “No, I’m alright God. I’ve got
                           this, but would you mind helping me by
                           squirting some water in my mouth next time
                           around?” as Prideman keeps slamming us over and
                           over again. There may be 21 of the pride
                           categories where we don’t struggle, but one
                           area where we do. I encourage you to be
                           Humbleman and tag God’s hand to wage war for
                           you in that category. “God, I’m ready for you
                           to fight Prideman instead of me. I can’t do it.
                           You need to take over completely.” That’s what
                           humble people say.
                           My SELF says, “No, I can handle this! I just
--
                           the mighty hand of God, that He may exalt you
                           in due time…" 1 Pet. 5:6

Pride Monster
                           Imagine you’re in a canoe and there is a big
                           pride sea-monster that never stops chasing you
                           and it wants to eat you and it’s coming up and
                           down in the water chasing right behind you. So
                           you paddle like crazy to not get bit. Imagine
                           you paddle super hard for a long time and you
                           get really far ahead of it and so you put down
                           your paddle and kick up your feet and take a
                           break. And that’s when the pride monster
                           catches up to you and bites you hard.

Two Dogs
                           Two hungry dogs and only one dish of food. The
                           dog who eats the most is the one who gets
                           stronger and wins the fight. Pridedog is more
                           aggressive and pushier than Humbledog and so
                           pushes Humbledog out of the way and eats all of
                           the food unless someone purposefully pulls back
                           on Pridedog’s chain. That is when Humbledog
                           eats all of the food and wins. Here are some
                           things you can do to feed Humbledog.
                              - Be thankful everyday by telling God 20
--
                                your name? How long have you lived here?
                                Why did you move here? What do you do? How
                                did you get interested in that?
                              - Share your pride struggles with people
                                close to you and ask them to pray for you
                                and to tell you when they see your signs
                                of pride.

How Extreme Pride Slips In
                           Particularly for public figures like pastors,
                           CEO’s, singers, athletes, actors and actresses,
                           pride slips in subtly and undetected. And after
                           several years of being innocently complimented
                           and praised, we start believing things about
                           our SELF (ego) that are over-inflated above
--
                           a pastor.

How Humility Happens to Hard People
                           They say that pride is the last thing to leave
                           before a lot of people come to Christ. They’re
                           tired of trying to fight it on their own and
                           when they’ve tried everything else and have
                           been humbled, then they turn to God. They say,
                           “God, I’ve got a problem with pride and I’m
                           asking that YOU wage war on it. I’ll stand
                           aside. Please fight it for me.” Until a person
                           gets to that point and is serious, Life’s not
--
                           spouse, the kids, a job or a few nights in the
                           car before someone raises their hand and says,
                           “Hi, my name is Ronald McDonald and I’m a
                           pride-a-holic and I need help.”
                           Self-Centered Churches and Man Boobs
                           I was listening to a non faith based marriage
                           book the other day and the author said that
                           Narcissism and Grandiosity (both forms of
                           pride) are a huge problem in America. A lot of
                           it started in the early 1970’s when personal
                           trainers and tons of self help books became
                           super common.  “You can do it. You’ve got what
                           it takes. You are worth it. There are no
                           losers. We don’t keep score. We don’t give
                           grades. Everybody wins and everybody passes.”
                           We clearly live in a self-centered (prideful)
                           society. So how wouldn’t that not bleed into
                           the church? Most churches rightly have the
                           slogan “To know God and make him known”, but
--

2nd list with more explanation and links to articles

Pride of Spirituality

Appearing Really Spiritual
                           People should be spiritually minded. God loves
--
                           Rejection of Material Possessions Sometimes
                           with good intentions, people think that God is
                           pleased when we don’t have things of value.
                           Righteous living. And then in their pride can
                           say, “If only those materialistic people were
                           as righteous as I”.
                              - Reject money, fame, joy or pleasure (also
--
Spiritualize everything
                              - They only talk about spiritual things so
                                that people will think they’re spiritual.
                              - Prideful people spruce up their public
                                prayers with churchy vocabulary or higher
                                volume that they never use when talking to
                                God alone, to make sure people recognize
--
                                that those listening are impressed with us
                                and think, “That guy is a real spiritual
                                man. He sure can pray”, then that’s always
                                pride.
                              - Practice their public prayers
                              - Prideful people often speak differently,
                                use a different accent or voice or put on
                                a different face or behavior to help
                                people recognize that they’re spiritual.
--
                                spouses and church members.

False Humility
                           Prideful people fake their humility. They try
                           extra hard to be humble for the purpose of
                           people thinking that they’re humble so they’ll
                           be praised for being so humble. A very humble
--
                           “I bet they think I’m pretty humble”. That’s
                           not True Humility. It’s called False Humility.
                           It’s just a matter of the heart.
                              - Prideful put themselves down as if they
                                are lower than everybody else. This may
                                even flow from a genuine desire for
                                humility, but humility is seeing your SELF
                                the way you accurately are. Pride is
                                seeing your SELF NOT the way you actually
                                are.
                              - Treat themselves badly - “I am not worthy”
                                or “I’m a loser”.
                              - Prideful people don’t easily accept
                                compliments. They put one hand in front of
                                you like they’re stopping traffic and with
                                the other they point to the heavens while
--
                                them, “That really seemed like it was all
                                you. If it had been God, then it would
                                have been WAY better than that”. Their
                                pride wants those watching to say, “Whoa,
                                that guy is humble. He must be really
                                spiritual”. The right response would be to
                                say something that is actually true,
--
                                “Thank you for the kind words. Mom and Dad
                                made me take lessons for years and
                                years.”
                              - Prideful people skillfully brag in a
                                humble way. “Can you believe how great God
                                is. They asked me to speak at the Prayer
                                Breakfast again.” or “Please pray for my
--
                                because if they just flat out bragged
                                about their SELF, they wouldn’t look too
                                spiritual.
                              - Prideful people tell you they’re humble
                                and say, “In my humble opinion”.
                              - Only confess insignificant sins - Prideful
                                people confess little sins and say things
                                like, “I really struggle with coveting my
                                neighbor’s old Toyota Land Cruiser
--
                                makes them feel better about their own
                                failings.

Pride of Knowledge
                           They try really hard to make sure people think
                           they’re smart
                           “The wise person accepts instructions, but the
--
                           the Bible. He looked at me and asked, “But what
                           could I learn?” He felt he knew everything
                           already.
                              - Prideful people say they don’t need to be
                                trained or educated because that would
                                mean their SELF wasn’t capable enough to
                                be successful without someone’s help.
                                Prideful people want to say, “I became a
                                successful and accomplished self-made man
                                by myself. I didn’t need anyone to teach
                                me anything because I’m that smart or
                                capable. I’m sure you’re impressed with
                                me”.
                              - Prideful people think they have all the
                                answers to life and somehow don’t need or
                                see the value in other people’s
                                perspectives.
--
                              - Though credentials and titles are
                                sometimes necessary to establish authority
                                so they’ll listen to or negotiate with
                                you, prideful people insist on a lofty
                                title or talk a lot about their
                                credentials so that others will be more
                                impressed and think more highly of them.
--
                              - Assume they know all there is about the
                                subject and so tune out
                              - Don’t listen to those they lead
                              - Prideful people listen to others just to
                                see if they can fix them or bless and
                                impress them with their wisdom and
                                knowledge.

Argumentative
                           Prideful people argue strange, new or
                           uncommonly held beliefs or doctrines and argue
                           them well so that people are impressed with
                           their intellect.
                              - They get the last word
                              - Prideful people don’t discuss their
                                differences with the hope of possibly
                                learning something. They argue to show how
                                much they know.
                              - Prideful people don’t hesitate confronting
                                someone to say what they think is right.
                              - They can’t handle being wrong.
                              - Argue and hold to strange or uncommonly
--
                           Unnecessary criticism is just mean. It tears
                           down, doesn’t help and makes people feel bad.
                           It is usually based in poor self-worth and
                           shame. Prideful people measure themselves
                           against others. When someone near them does a
                           good thing, it makes their SELF feel inferior,
                           and so they tear them down for no reason other
--
                              - Always give the punishment deserved
                                instead of showing mercy

Pride of Power
                           Thinking that they’re more important than
                           others or trying to make sure people think
                           they’re capable.

Pride and a Controlling Nature
                           Here is a comprehensive article full of
                           psychobabble about why the need to control,
                           feel superior and be mean to others is such a
                           huge sign of
                           pride.http://mindrenewal.us/page6.html

Control
                           Control is trying to give yourself security.
                           But remember, you are one cancer cell away from
                           being in control.
                              - Prideful people control their spouse,
                                children, friends and co-workers.
                              - Prideful parents create dependent children
                                by providing everything for them and not
                                letting them suffer the consequences of
                                their irresponsible actions. They want to
                                keep them around to be needed. A form of
                                control.
                              - Prideful people manipulate to get their
                                way by throwing their wedding ring across
                                the room or throw some sort of tantrum
                                whether it’s really quiet or really loud.
                                They try to condition you to go with their
                                idea everytime.
                              - Prideful people say it’s my way or no way.
                                They threaten to boycott the trip or
                                activity by saying, “Nevermind, I don’t
                                even want to go now” if they don’t get
--
                           or smoke cigars or play poker or say ‘darn or
                           gosh’ or get a tattoo or pierce your nose or
                           read any version of the Bible other than the
                           King James Version or or…. This form of Pride
                           has kept more people away from God than maybe
                           any other. I know so many people raised in
                           legalistic homes who now, as adults, mock
--
                           gosh’ or get a tattoo or pierce your nose

Submission
                           Prideful people don’t submit easily and rebel
                           against their leaders, spiritual or secular and
                           falsely see it as a weaker position. God as our
                           leader. Wives against their husbands; children
--
                           humble and listen to those they lead,
                           especially when their initial thought wasn’t as
                           good as someone else’s.
                           Prideful people don’t like being told what to
                           do. This doesn’t mean to not question or share
                           wisdom with our leaders, but without a fight,
                           submit.

Hungry for Attention
                           Prideful people get hurt and resent it if they
                           aren’t made mention of and recognized for their
                           accomplishments, acts of service or
                           selflessness. They say and do things for
--
                           take great notice of them and regard them
                           highly and talk about them when they’re not
                           there.
                           Prideful people lie. They don’t just embellish
                           a story to make it more entertaining but flat
                           out lie with numbers and circumstances to make
                           their SELF look better.
--
                                pray?

Take Credit for Things
                              - Prideful people lie to take credit for
                                things they didn’t do.
                              - Prideful people don’t give compliments or
                                credit to people who deserve it because
                                they think it makes them look bad in
                                contrast.
                              - Don’t like to share praise with others
                              - Prideful people don’t need to pray because
                                that would mean God did it and they
                                wouldn’t get credit for it.
                              - Prideful people shoot down other people’s
                                good ideas because it wasn’t their own and
                                even condition others to eventually stop
                                sharing ideas. They make fun of them or
--
                                not wise for saying that.

Workaholic
                           Prideful people are serve or work obsessed,
                           addicted to power and control in a compulsive
                           drive to gain approval and public recognition
                           of success. They believe that their SELF or
--
                           https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.psychologytoda
                           y.com/us/blog/the-workaholics/201112/understand
                           ing-the-dynamics-workaholism%3famp
                              - Prideful people in leadership positions
                                don’t delegate as often as they should
                                because no one can do it as well or as
                                quickly as they could.

Crave Importance
                           Prideful people feel and believe that value is
                           added to their SELF because of their status or
                           accomplishments. They feel that they are worth
                           more by doing or appearing a certain way.
--
                                beyond when they had agreed. His wife told
                                my wife, “He’s the proudest man I know”.

Overachiever Pride
                              - Sometimes when a child didn’t feel
                                unconditionally loved by their parents or
                                guardians just for who they were, but only
--
                           True humility isn’t thinking less of your SELF,
                           but thinking of your SELF less. Here is a great
                           psychobabble article about why low self esteem
                           and depression is a huge sign of pride.
                           Humility is seeing your SELF the way it
                           actually is. Knowing what is true about who you
                           are. If you are a naturally gifted musician or
--
                           or don’t have much fashion sense, they are
                           comfortable admitting it because it’s true
                           about their SELF.
                           Pride is NOT seeing your SELF the way it
                           actually is. Not believing what is accurate and
                           true. If you’re a physically attractive person
                           but tell everyone that you’re ugly or if you
                           have a very likable personality but say that
                           people don’t like you, then that is pride
                           because it isn’t true. Prideful people who
                           aren’t very good at coming up with creative
                           marketing ideas or who are clearly not very
                           good at leading people, won’t stop insisting
                           that they are and are offended if someone
                           speaks the truth to them. Prideful people don’t
                           believe what is true about their SELF.
                              - Won’t ask for forgiveness because that
                                would mean that their SELF isn’t great and
--
                                to think highly of them.

Embarrassed easily
                           Embarrassment is a sign that pride is being
                           attacked.
                             1. Prideful people think they’re above doing
                                lowly tasks and immediately think, “I, of
                                all people, shouldn’t have to do that.
                                That task is for someone lower than
                                myself.”
                             2. Prideful people fear people seeing them
                                doing lowly tasks because they fear that
                                others will think they must not be very
                                powerful or important if they have to do a
                                lowly task.
                             3. Prideful people wait to be served and
                                don’t often serve others because they
                                don’t think of others as more important
                                than themselves.
                             4. Prideful people think they’re better than
                                others. This one can be hard to detect
                                because a person can appear to be humble
                                and caring on the outside.
                             5. Prideful people are easily offended when
                                others question their motives or ability
                                to do something. They say, “Don’t you
                                trust me” or “Don’t you think I know what
--
                           their SELF is true. It is especially hard on
                           them when someone who is their equal rises
                           above them economically or in social standing.
                             1. Prideful people believe others are envious
                                of them because “wouldn’t everybody be
                                envious of what I’ve got?”
                             2. Prideful are envious when the spotlight is
                                on someone they feel they are superior to.
                                Then they whisper to the person next to
                                them, “They’re not all that”.
                             3. Prideful people sabotage other people’s
                                work or don’t use someone else’s good idea
                                because they think that if that person is
                                praised, then they will look lesser.

Materialism
                           Prideful people try to impress with their
                           success by showing us their possessions.
                           Prideful people are not generous with their
                           money. They are SELF-ish and would rather use
                           their money to buy things that they feel
                           validate their untrue feelings of who they
--
Defensiveness
                              - Think the best defense is a great offense
                                when their SELF feels attacked (when their
                                pride is hurt).
                              - They condition people to NEVER confront
                                them again by attacking them back with
                                their past mistakes or failures so it
                                takes the focus off of the prideful
                                person’s problem.
                              - Prideful people make up excuses when
                                they’re corrected or criticized.
                              - Prideful people say things like,
                                “Everybody makes mistakes” or “you make
                                mistakes too” when they have no choice but
                                to accept blame.
--
                           There are a lot of legitimate medical and
                           traumatic reasons for depression. Focus on SELF
                           and believing what’s not true about their SELF,
                           is a common reason. Pride is a major cause of
                           depression for millions of people.

Shyness
                           We can be wired as introverts purposefully by
                           God from birth. This isn’t about introverts or
                           extroverts
                              - Prideful people are very shy. They are
                                overly concerned with others’ opinions of
                                them which is usually a reflection of
                                being obsessed with self.
                              - Prideful people don’t invite people to
                                their home because it’s not nice enough or
                                they can’t afford to entertain big.
                              - Prideful people have a hard time sharing
                                their real spiritual needs or other junk
                                because they’re afraid they won’t be liked
                                anymore.
                              - Prideful people fear what people will
                                think of them and are overly consumed with
                                man’s opinion of their SELF which is
                                usually a sign of obsession with self.
                              - Prideful people don’t like reaching out
                                and being friendly at church or in other
                                social settings.

Pride of Appearance
                           They try really hard to make sure people think
                           they’re valuable and they believe their SELF is
                           more valuable if it looks good
                           Arrogance, Immodesty, Narcissism, Pomposity,
                           Pride, Self-Importance, Self-Love, Self-regard,
                           smugness, swagger, self-admiration,
                           self-exaltation, swelled head, conceited,
                           display, pretension, self-worship, show,
                           ostentation,
                           We should take healthy pride in our appearance
                           and do the best with what we’ve got and for our
                           spouse. Dignity is a good thing. But this is
                           not:

Understanding Why We Have Pride and How it Works
                           God wants us to be proud of our work or family
                           or to try the best with what we’ve got. And
                           when we’re recognized and affirmed for doing
                           well, it feels good and right. That’s healthy
                           pride. The apostle Paul said that he was
                           “proud” of some of the early churches.
                           When we’re supported, protected and affirmed
                           growing up, then that builds a solid firm
--
                           accurate about us. And that’s when the praise
                           and worship of us starts and that makes us
                           think that what we believe about our SELF is
                           true. Pride can even distort our mind to think
                           that even our junk is good and right.

Conclusion
                           I really hope this list and explanation has
                           helped you understand what pride really looks
                           like and has given you a desire to not have it
                           in your life. And remember, don’t shoot the
                           messenger.</text>
</page> §
<page="en-35">
<text>    #ChurchLeaders » Feed ChurchLeaders » Comments Feed ChurchLeaders » 41
   Evidences of Pride Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

   IFRAME: //www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TH642W

--
Judge Dismisses Muslim Couple’s Lawsuit Against School Where Daughter
Converted to Christianity

   Home Pastors Articles for Pastors 41 Evidences of Pride

41 Evidences of Pride

   By
   Nancy DeMoss Wolgemuth
   -
   October 18, 2023
   signs of pride

   ShareTweetPinPocketFlipboard

   It’s wise for us to be aware of signs of pride in ourselves.

41 Key Signs of Pride

    1. Do you look down on those who are less educated, less affluent,
       less refined or less successful than yourself?
--
       it’s been more than a month, mark it down!)

   Are you sitting here thinking how many of these questions apply to
   someone you know? Feeling pretty good that none of these signs of pride
   really apply to you?

   This article about signs of pride originally appeared here.

   ShareTweetPinPocketFlipboard
   Previous article5 Commandments for Becoming a Media Savvy Pastor
--

   © 2024 ChurchLeaders.com, All rights reserved.

   signs of pride</text>
</page> §
<page="en-36">
<text>   #Inspiring Tips » Feed Inspiring Tips » Comments Feed Inspiring Tips »
   11 Signs You Are Prideful: How to Get Rid of Pride in Your Heart
   Comments Feed alternate alternate

   Skip to content
--
     * Spirituality
     * Quotes

11 Signs You Are Prideful: How to Get Rid of Pride in Your Heart

   Last Updated on: May 22, 2022 by Cyril Abello
   FacebookTweetPinLinkedIn
   Getting rid of pride Getting rid of pride Photo by Jason Blackeye
   Contents show
   11 Signs You Are Prideful
   1. You think you are humble.
   2. You do not accept constructive criticisms.
   3. You always want to be the center of attention.
--
   9. You do not like to be surpassed by anyone.
   10. You think you are too important to do mundane things.
   11. You are critical to those who do better than you.
   How to Control Pride and Overcome Arrogance
   20 Ways to Get Rid of Pride Become a Humble Person
   Healthy Pride is Good
   1. Self-confidence is a good pride
   2. Self-respect is a healthy pride
   3. A positive outlook on life
   4. self-esteem
   5. Optimism
   6. Those with healthy pride lead, motivate, and inspire others.
   7. Being able to take care of yourself.
   What are the characteristics of an prideful person?
   1) Being unthankful.
   2) Being arrogant.
   3) Being selfish.
--
   8) Jealous.
   9) Bullying.
   10) Having an attitude of superiority.
   Why is pride so sinful?
   What do the Bible verses say about pride?
   Evaluate Your Heart
   Online courses recommended for you:
   Books recommended for you:
   Gift ideas to help you to be a humble person:

11 Signs You Are Prideful

   How do you know you are struggling with pride? What are the symptoms of
   being prideful? To help you answer these questions and get rid of pride
   in your heart, evaluate yourself by checking out the following signs:

1. You think you are humble.

   One of the signs that you are proud of is that you refuse to admit that
   you struggle with pride. Therefore, calling yourself “humble” is
   actually false humility.

   To avoid this, stop telling yourself—or others—that you are humble. If
--
   that everyone adores you. Do not think that you are more important than
   anyone else. Instead, try living a low-key life.

   ALSO READ: How to Control Pride and Overcome Arrogance

4. You are vain about your physical appearance.

   Being obsessed about making yourself attractive is another hint of
   pride creeping into you. In connection with no. 3, vanity makes you
   flaunt your beauty, hoping that everyone will admire you.

   It is okay to take care of yourself and evaluate your motive for being
   attractive. However, if it is to draw attention to yourself, maybe it
   is time to re-orient yourself about real beauty.
   How to Get Rid of Pride in Your Heart How to Get Rid of Pride in Your
   Heart Photo by Fred-Photos

5. You do not like associating with the “ordinary” or unpopular.
--
   to sit with? Do you immediately look for the table where the “elite”
   sit around? If you think you only deserve professionals and
   “first-class” citizens for your friends and avoid hanging out with
   “low-level” people, then you are clearly prideful.

   To get rid of this attitude, be equal in treating people. Make friends
   not according to social status, but the sincerity of individuals
--
7. You are not teachable.

   Not listening to someone who is trying to teach you something is
   another sign of pride. It is either you think you know things already,
   or you think you know more than the person. It could also mean you
   consider him/her inferior to you.

--

8. You do not listen to others’ advice.

   Prideful people are also stubborn. They think they know everything
   already, so they disregard the counsel of others. You are one of them
   if you brush off the advice of your parents, some elders, or anyone
   else.
--
9. You do not like to be surpassed by anyone.

   Considering others as threats to your position, fame, and success is a
   result of pride. Your achievements could have gotten into your head
   already that you think you should always be the no. 1. Thus, when you
   meet people who have the potential to beat your accomplishments, you
   consider them as rivals.
--
10. You think you are too important to do mundane things.

   If you think your position is so high that you cannot pick up trash,
   help clean up, or serve others, that is definitely pride.

   Do not let entitlement make you feel like you are more important than
   anyone else. Great people are not afraid to serve those who are less
   fortunate than them.
   How to Get Rid of Pride in Your Heart How to Get Rid of Pride in Your
   Heart Photo by Free-Photos

11. You are critical to those who do better than you.

   One symptom of pride that you should watch out for is being critical
   towards others, especially those you are insecure with. Pointing out
   their flaws makes you feel better about yourself and better than them.

   Bitterness is the result of pride stepped on. Whenever you feel
   resentment towards someone who did better than you, keep yourself from
   thinking or saying bad comments about the person. Instead, give
   appreciation and be happy for him/her.

How to Control Pride and Overcome Arrogance

   1. Identify the cause of your pride

   2. Analyze and compare your pride in the reality

   3. Seek feedback

--

   12. Flee temptation

   For the details, please visit: How to Control Pride and Overcome
   Arrogance

20 Ways to Get Rid of Pride Become a Humble Person

   1. Do not compare yourself with anyone else.

--

   20. Always thank those who help or serve you, even in small things.

   Please visit How to Get Rid of Pride for the details.

Healthy Pride is Good

   Not all pride is bad. It can be good.

   Good pride is a healthy, positive attitude towards ourselves and our
   lives. It does not mean thinking we are better than others or that we
   should be treated differently.

1. Self-confidence is a good pride

   We should be confident, not arrogant. Confident people are realistic.
   They know what they can do well and try to do it often, but they also
   recognize what they cannot do and try to avoid those things.

2. Self-respect is a healthy pride

   This is the most important aspect of healthy pride. We should respect
   ourselves by respecting others. Treating others well helps us feel
   better about ourselves, while ignoring or mistreating others makes us
   feel worse.
--
   have bad habits or skills that we can improve. Self-esteem includes
   recognizing both of these sides to ourselves.

   Healthy pride comes from within: we should be proud of what we
   accomplish without feeling that we deserve special treatment. Healthy
   pride comes from God: when he made us in his image, he gave us value
   and worth; he expects nothing less than excellence from us as well!

5. Optimism
--
   Achieving goals helps us feel more positive about ourselves and feel
   motivated to set new goals because of this success.

6. Those with healthy pride lead, motivate, and inspire others.

   They do not use their success as a way to put others down. On the
   contrary, they want the good of everyone to be achieved and are willing
--

7. Being able to take care of yourself.

   Healthy pride means taking care of yourself and being grateful for the
   opportunities you have been given in life. For instance: being thankful
   for your family, education, job, etc. Having healthy pride means that
   you do not need to compare yourself with others – you are enough on
   your own!

   People with healthy pride can see their own flaws and weaknesses. They
   also have the ability to assess the value of others even more than
   themselves because they have a more realistic view of life.

--
   than just surviving or getting by on a day-to-day basis. In return, we
   may find happiness instead of sorrow when pursuing our ambitions!

What are the characteristics of an prideful person?

1) Being unthankful.

--

3) Being selfish.

   Prideful people think only of themselves and their own needs first, not
   about the needs of others around them who may be suffering. They often
   take advantage of others.

--

4) Being defensive.

   A prideful person doesn’t like to admit that he has faults or
   weaknesses. He is defensive when anyone points them out, so he does not
   improve himself and correct his mistakes. Instead, he often blames
   others for the things that are going wrong with him.
--

5) Refusing to forgive others.

   Prideful people think that any injustice against them must be punished
   severely to feel better about themselves and especially to inflict pain
   on those who hurt them (even if they were the only one who was hurt).

   They focus on their own rights and think they are entitled to get back
   what others have done, or even more.

   Prideful people aren’t willing to forgive others who offend them, no
   matter how repentant they are or how much it would be for the good of
   their relationships if they did so.

--

8) Jealous.

   Prideful people are envious of others and want to tear them down
   because those people have something good that proud people don’t get
   for themselves.

   When someone does something right, a prideful person thinks it is bad
   because it makes him look bad for not doing as well himself. So he gets
   upset at the success of others and tries to make them feel guilty for
   shaming him.

   Likewise, a prideful person feels bitter when someone gets a gift or
   good fortune that he did not receive. He is jealous of what others have
   or do and does not rejoice for them.

--

9) Bullying.

   Prideful people don’t like it when they feel small, so they will bully
   others into making themselves feel bigger. They are overbearing and
   tyrannical with those who don’t think or act as they do to maintain
   their ego.
--
   things can make a person feel superior and treat those who have less
   poorly to make himself feel better about himself.

Why is pride so sinful?

   There is nothing wrong with being proud of what you have achieved. For
   example, a good parent is proud of their child when they do well in
--
   your car, house, or job, and rightly so – they are all achievements
   that deserve to be praised.

   But pride can become a sin when it turns into arrogance.

   The Apostle Paul, who wrote most of the New Testament, was an
   incredible man. He helped change the world with his writing and
--
   this is a humble statement from someone who has done so much for God’s
   kingdom.

   Pride causes us to think that we are better than others or that what we
   do is more important than others. It makes us believe that our
   achievements are entirely our own doing rather than recognizing the
   hand of God along the way. Pride stops us from thanking Him for His
   grace.

   When we are proud of our achievements, it becomes difficult to accept
   criticism or negative feedback because we don’t think we need any help.

   Pride stops us from serving others. When someone is arrogant, they
   think they are better than everyone else – so why serve others? They
   will look down on you for doing menial tasks, whereas if you were
   humble, you would serve others and do menial tasks out of obedience.

   Pride can indeed be a sin when we are proud of our achievements, but it
   can also be a sin when we are proud about who we are rather than what
   we do.

   It’s okay to say ‘I am good at mathematics’ or ‘I am an amazing
   singer,’ but if this becomes more important to us than saying, ‘Jesus
   sacrificed His life for me, and I have come to love Him deeply,’ then
   pride has set in.

   Pride stops us from being thankful for the incredible grace that God
   has given us. When someone is arrogant, they think nothing of thanking
   Jesus for anything – because they consider themselves so great! But if
   you were truly humble, you would be thankful for every blessing that
   comes your way, whether it be something as small as a cup of water or
   something great like the life of Jesus.

What do the Bible verses say about pride?

     In his pride the wicked man does not seek him; in all his thoughts
     there is no room for God. (Psalm 10:4, NIV)


     All who fear the LORD will hate evil. Therefore, I hate pride and
     arrogance, corruption, and perverse speech. (Proverbs 8:13, NLT)


     Pride goes before destruction, a haughty spirit before a fall.
     Better to be lowly in spirit along with the oppressed than to share
     plunder with the proud. (Proverbs 16:18-19, NIV)


     In his pride the wicked man does not seek him; in all his thoughts
     there is no room for God. (Psalm 10:4, NIV)


     All who fear the LORD will hate evil. Therefore, I hate pride and
     arrogance, corruption and perverse speech. (Proverbs 8:13, NLT)


--
     (Romans 11:18-20, ESV)


     One’s pride will bring him low, but he who is lowly in spirit will
     obtain honor. (Proverbs 29:23, ESV)


     When pride comes, then comes disgrace, but with humility comes
     wisdom. (Proverbs 11:2, NIV)


--
     12:16, NLT)


     Where there is strife, there is pride, but wisdom is found in those
     who take advice. (Proverbs 13:10, NIV)


--

Evaluate Your Heart

   Many other things could give you a hint that pride is attacking you.
   The bottom line here is your motivation. If you do things out of
   selfish ambitions, then you are definitely prideful.

   To prevent pride from overcoming you, you must check your motives
   daily. It is important that you keep your feet on the ground, no matter
   how high you have reached already.

   God knows your heart, and if it is full of pride, He might teach you
   some lessons. Remember, the Bible says in Luke 14:11, “For all those
   who exalt themselves will be humbled, and those who humble themselves
   will be exalted.”
--

   ALSO READ:

     How to be a Humble Person: 20 Ways to Get Rid of Pride

   IFRAME:
   https://inspiringtips.com/how-to-be-a-humble-person-get-rid-of-pride/em
   bed/#?secret=vpIpX6KCI1

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/ag_gd_UrGYY?feature=oembed
--
   reading for leisure.

   Categories Personal Development Tags how to be humble, humility,
   personal development tips, pride, self-help

   Emily Fletcher’s The M Word: Why It Can Help You Handle Life Better
   10 Things to Know When Dating an Independent Woman
--
   November 25, 2021 3:52 am

   Thank you for truth. The Lord woke me up out of my sleep in regards to
   my behavior. I never knew I was operating in pride until the Lord
   showed me a reflection of myself . I had to repent and believe I will
   continue to do so in this area until Yah’s will be done in my life.

--
   Rakiya
   October 25, 2020 2:45 am

   My boy friend has all these qualities mentioned above. Yet he prides
   himself as being quiet, gentle and humble. Any time I point out his
   flaws becomes defensive and says that use my perception of him and it’s
   irrelevant. I’m really tired of his attitudes
--

   Sometimes a person can be proud of not being proud. hehehehe Many don’t
   realize they have it.
   There are several types of pride.
   And bad pride is sin. According to the Scriptures;” Pride goeth before
   destructions.. … Self-pity, self-condemnation self-exaltation, etc; ard
   members of being prideful.:)
   0
   Reply
   a grateful guy a grateful guy
--
   February 20, 2021 9:23 pm

   I see your point now but have not been able to see it this way in the
   past. Usually we only see or hear pride described as being too self
   absorbed, character traits that reflects too much like/love for self
   and whatever self wants , not the other way around. I never saw myself
   as prideful for feeling less than . I didn’t understand pride could
   mean not listening and or giving attention /time to other’s advice /
   suggestions. (proper/fair, which includes even when we do not agree
   with them or what they’re telling us. It might not be that other’s are
--
   hurts others – but not necessarily on purpose. I know now that I’m
   guilty of this kind of stuff but my behavior/actions/words like this
   come from outside influences / sins of other’s. Maybe we were raised
   differently than they (person we consider prideful) were so whats good
   behavior as far as we’re concerned and or proper Godly actions /choices
   may not be familiar or even “Godly ” or proper to them at all. Usually
   followers of Christ have The Holy Spirit to guide them, direct them,
--
   December 31, 2019 6:06 am

   This is a powerful reading and message to all for correction and
   identifications as known, pride wiggles into a person without knowing.
   0
   Reply
   Scott Scott
--
   October 20, 2020 8:03 am

   Thank you and God Bless you for telling me I have been letting the
   devil’s whispers of Self- Pride influence the last 14 years of my life.
   0
   Reply</text>
</page> §
<page="en-37">
<text>   #ADORNED HEART » Feed ADORNED HEART » Comments Feed ADORNED HEART » 38
   Signs Of Pride In A Person Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

     * About Us
          + Contributors
--

   healing

38 Signs Of Pride In A Person

   January 3, 2022 /

--
     * Tweet
     * (BUTTON) Pin

   Too much pride will cause problems in your relationships, jobs,
   friendships, and ultimately every area of your life. Unfortunately,
   pride makes it hard to grow because the pain inside causes information
   to be filtered wrong and in a way that it doesn’t hurt the ego. Often a
   prideful person doesn’t know how severe their pride is.

   The pride within the person is there to protect their VERY fragile ego.
   For instance, if you point out flawed behavior in a prideful person
   they won’t be able to accept it OR won’t be able to see the truth.
   Especially if that behavior is very embarrassing for them. The fragile
   ego of others will push them to use different types of unhealthy coping
--
   downplaying their own actions, be offended you accused them, and many
   other unhealthy coping mechanisms.

   Unfortunately, many that struggle with pride lack support because
   “pride” and “ego” stop them from asking for help. Or they don’t have
   the right type of support because the pride causes one to avoid/refuse
   to take constructive criticism from anyone. And a prideful person may
   feel afraid of vulnerability or be unwilling to feel inferior to the
   person giving the help.

What causes pride?

   The ultimate cause of pride is trying to fix our low self-esteem,
   unworthiness, and fears in our own strength. Pride damages your career
   and relationships because you are only pretending to be confident,
   strong, and bold.
     * 7 Root Causes of Pride + tips to be more humble:
          + #1 Trying to fix everything.
          + #2 Fear of humility.
          + #3 Fear of Vulnerability.
--
          + #6 Impossible standards of perfection.
          + #7 Thinking you are not all-knowing.

Signs Of Pride In A Person

   1. If people don’t take my advice, they’ll regret it later.

--

   26. I have a hard time complimenting other people.

   Related Quiz: Am I Prideful?

   27. I pretend I’m doing great, when I’m falling apart inside.

--
   35. I often point out the errors of others because seeing imperfections
   annoys me.

   36. If someone criticizes me then I assume they are prideful.

   37. When someone is sharing their feelings or perspective, I interrupt
   them to correct facts.
--
Uneke simmons
       July 17, 2023 at 11:00 am Reply
       I am thankful to have came across these insightful words. I never
       knew all the things that were added into being prideful and now
       thanks to GOD putting a scripture into my Bible reading this
       morning which was right on time I then started researching what are
       prideful ways and I came across your insights thank you so much
       ????????????✨
          +

--
            August 6, 2023 at 12:59 am Reply
            You’re most welcome! I’m grateful to hear that you found the
            insights helpful and timely. It’s wonderful that God’s Word
            led you to discover more about prideful ways and provided you
            with the information you needed. Remember, seeking wisdom and
            understanding is a continuous journey, and I’m glad I could
            play a small part in assisting you on that path. May your</text>
</page> §
<page="en-38">
<text>
   Home » Islamic Teachings » Moral Teachings of Islam

The Curse of Arrogance and Pride: An Islamic Perspective on Overcoming
Division

   Arrogance and pride

   In our social and cultural setups, the curse of arrogance and pride has
   infiltrated our hearts, fueling division and discord among individuals
   and communities. This destructive mindset hinders personal growth,
   erodes relationships, and tears at the fabric of society. However,
--
   negative traits, fostering unity, and nurturing a harmonious
   coexistence.

   Arrogance and pride breed a sense of superiority, blinding individuals
   to the inherent worth and dignity of others. In our pursuit of worldly
   accomplishments, we often forget that true success lies in recognizing
   the greatness of the Creator and our own limitations as human beings.
--
   self-importance and denies the equality and interdependence of all
   human beings.

   The curse of arrogance and pride manifests in various forms within our
   social and cultural setups. It manifests as elitism, where individuals
   perceive themselves as superior based on wealth, social status, or
   lineage. It fuels tribalism and racism, creating divisions based on
--
   Composure
   Becoming The Servants of the Most Merciful (2) – Humility

Overcome the curse of arrogance and pride

   To overcome the curse of arrogance and pride, Islamic teachings offer a
   profound solution rooted in humbleness and humility. Muslims are
   encouraged to cultivate a deep sense of self-awareness, acknowledging
   that all blessings and abilities come from Allah. Instead of boasting
--
   social status or beliefs. His life serves as a shining example of the
   transformative power of humility in building bridges and nurturing
   harmonious relationships. In the light of Islamic teachings, the
   solution to overcoming the curse of arrogance and pride lies in a
   collective effort to return to the core values of Islam. It requires
   individuals to introspect, purify their hearts, and develop a genuine
   sense of humility. By recognizing the worth and value of every
--
   seeking personal gain or recognition. By putting the needs of others
   before their own and embracing the spirit of selflessness, Muslims can
   actively contribute to the betterment of society and counter the
   divisive effects of arrogance and pride.

   In conclusion, the curse of arrogance and pride poses a significant
   threat to our social and cultural setups. Islamic teachings offer a
   transformative solution rooted in humbleness and humility. By
   cultivating self-awareness, practicing gratitude, adhering to taqwa,
   and following the example of the Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him),
   Muslims can overcome the negative impacts of arrogance and pride. By
   embodying the values of Islam, we can nurture a society that promotes
   unity, respect, and compassion, paving the way for a harmonious
   coexistence and a brighter future for all.
--
   (BUTTON)
   Share
   Share
   # Muslim characters # Pride # Arrogance
   Did you like this content?
   (BUTTON) No (BUTTON) Yes
   (BUTTON) ×</text>
</page> §
<page="en-39">
<text>    #About Islam » Why is Pride Such a Big Sin in Islam? Comments Feed
   alternate alternate

   [tr?id=3176153362654970&amp;ev=PageView&amp;noscript=1]
--
     * ›
     * Ask About Islam
     * ›
     * Why is Pride Such a Big Sin in Islam?

   aaa

Why is Pride Such a Big Sin in Islam?

   15 September, 2020
   Q Assalamu alaikum, may Allah's blessings be upon you.My question is
   regarding the idea of pride. I understand that it does not lie in
   honesty and decency for one to have the intention to show off in front
   of another while performing an action, as in this case, it equates to
   the action not being done at all, due to insincerity and impurity of
--
   such intentions.But I would like to know, just to understand this whole
   thing better, why does one attach such ideas and intentions to actions
   that are meant to help us find our own truth? In short, I would like to
   know more about why pride (that leads one to show off) is so sinful and
   wrong , even if it's only a small feeling of it.

Answer
--
   15 September, 2020

   Short Answer:
     * When pride finds its way into the hearts of Muslims, it quickly
       affects the way we talk, act and treat others. This is why it
       should be avoided and we should stay away from it just like any
       other sin.
--

   Thank you for your question,

Why is Pride Such a Big Sin in Islam?

   Prophet Muhammad said,

--
     arrogance in his/her heart.” (Tirmidhi)

   All human beings have the tendency to become proud but there are
   different degrees of pride. It could be so little that it becomes
   unnoticeable and yet it could grow to be eventually a larger amount.
   That is why we always pray to Allah not to make us among the proud and
   arrogant people.

   Ads by Muslim Ad Network

   Pride brings confusion in the religion of Allah and thus it corrupts
   the heart and prevents it from thinking about over the verses of the
   Quran.

How salah (prayers) curbs pride

   As Muslims, Allah commanded us not to bow before anyone but him. That
   is why performing Salah is very important in Islam because Prophet
--
   before anyone but Him.

   Islam teaches us to be humble to one another. One of the
   characteristics of a good Muslim is humbleness and humility, pride is a
   characteristic of Satan. Pride could make people disobedient towards
   the teachings of Prophet Muhammad.

The negative effects of pride

   It is only pride that will make a Muslim not forgive another Muslim,
   when their forgiveness is being asked. Hence, a proud person will start
   thinking that he or she is better than others, forgetting that we were
   all created from clay and we have a grave to go to and Allah to answer
   to.

   Pride causes people not to be content and they are eternally in pursuit
   of power and position. Pride pushes people away from the religion of
   Allah and the curse of Allah is on the proud and arrogant.

     “I am better than him (Adam), You created me from fire, and him You
     created from clay.”

   Allah Almighty said in Noble Quran about the greatest sin arrogance
   (pride) in these words:

     “[To them] it will be said, “Enter the gates of Hell to abide
     eternally therein, and wretched is the residence of the arrogant”
     (Quran, 39:72).

   According to the Holy Quran, arrogance (pride) is the sin that will be
   severely punished by Allah Almighty. Our beloved Prophet Muhammad said
   that pride is the disease which is the greatest sin in the sight of
   Allah Almighty; one who is proud is arrogant. People who are arrogant
   will not enter paradise.

   People who live in a state of pride and betrayal reside in a dark
   internal world full of a extreme fear of losing, making a mistake,
   being humiliated, stress, doubt, hatred, anger, and passion.

--
   they never find peace in life. Like sea salt water, the thirst is never
   quenched with it.

   When pride finds its way into the hearts of Muslims, it quickly affects
   the way we talk, act and treat others. This is why it should be avoided
   and we should stay away from it just like any other sin.

--
   https://aboutislam.net/multimedia/videos/what-is-the-nafs/embed/#?secre
   t=ypqwSq7vM7

     Faith Between Pride and Arrogance

   IFRAME:
   https://aboutislam.net/counseling/ask-about-islam/faith-pride-arrogance
   /embed/#?secret=Yyu7G7J9Fa

   arrogance pride I have kibr (pride) Humble submission in Prayer being
   proud destroy arrogance remove pride from your heart
   About Aa’isha Varma
   Aa’isha Varma is a 6-year revert to Islam. Born into Hindu culture, she
   embarked on a spiritual journey, first reverting to Buddhism, and then</text>
</page> §
<page="en-4">
<text>          + Juneteenth
          + Martin Luther King Jr. Day
          + Music Evolution
          + Pride
          + “She Innovates” Women’s History Month
          + South American Adventure
          + Street Art
--

   Diversity and Equity Virtual Team Building

70+ Pride Month Quotes for 2023

   By Rhys Havens

   In this post, you’ll find 70+ Pride Month quotes for 2023! Pride Month
   happens each year during the month of June. By honoring Pride Month,
   your company will send an important message about its values to
   employees and the community.

   This year, as part of your commitment to diversity, equity, and
   inclusion, share the Pride quotes below on your company’s social media
   channels or in your e-newsletter. You can inspire and enlighten your
   audiences while also starting an important dialogue. Sharing these
   quotes will also help LGBTQ+ clients, employees, and stakeholders feel
   seen and welcomed.

   As you share these quotes for Pride Month, remember to also take
   meaningful action to support the LGBTQ+ community. Consider planning a
   volunteer day, supporting a nonprofit serving the LGBTQ+ community, or
   advocating for legislative change. After all, actions speak louder than
   words. Sharing words of wisdom is just one part of a meaningful Pride
   campaign!
     __________________________________________________________________

   TLDR: in this list, you’ll find:
     * Meaningful quotes for Pride Month 2023
     * Pride Month quotes to share on social media or in e-newsletters
     * Inspirational quotes to celebrate the LGBTQ+ community
     * Pride quotes from historical figures, authors, celebrities, and
       more
     * Quotes about LBGTQ+ pride, being yourself, fighting for equity, and
       allyship
     __________________________________________________________________

Looking for an educational and fun way to celebrate Pride Month with your
team?

   IFRAME:
   https://www.youtube.com/embed/5NJ7yuGOXpo?si=jARfUj2lxKxR1DdN?rel=0

   Check out our “Pride is Protest” virtual team building experience, with
   two live-streaming guides and a look at iconic locations in New York
   and San Francisco! Check out the brief video preview above – and then
   connect with Unexpected Virtual Tours to book your teams’s spot!
     __________________________________________________________________

Pride Month Quotes on LGBTQ+ Pride &amp; Equity

   LGBTQ Pride Flag LGBTQ Pride Flag

     1. “It is revolutionary for any trans person to choose to be seen
     and visible in a world that tells us we should not exist.”
--
   – Kate McKinnon
     __________________________________________________________________

Pride Quotes on Courage &amp; Overcoming Adversity

   Two Men Together Two Men Together

--
   – Harvey Fierstein
     __________________________________________________________________

Pride Month Quotes on Coming Out

   Coming Out Celebration Coming Out Celebration

--
   – Brené Brown
     __________________________________________________________________

Quotes About Love for Pride Month

   Rainbow Heart Rainbow Heart

--
   – bell hooks
     __________________________________________________________________

Pride Month Quotes on Gender Identity

   Pride Month Quotes on Gender Identity Pride Month Quotes on Gender
   Identity

     21. “Gender is between your ears and not between your legs.”
--
   – Alok Vaid-Menon
     __________________________________________________________________

Pride Quotes on Allyship

   Pride Month Quotes on Allyship Pride Month Quotes on Allyship

     26. “No person is your friend who demands your silence, or denies
     your right to grow.”
--
   – Gabrielle Union
     __________________________________________________________________

Pride Quotes on Queer Visibility

   Queer Pride March Queer Pride March

     31. “If public figures came out of the closet, then the LGBT kids
     who saw them on TV would feel safe before they even knew why they
--

Inspirational Quotations on Owning Your Power

   Crowd at Pride March Crowd at Pride March

     36. “When I dare to be powerful, to use my strength in the service
     of my vision, then it becomes less and less important whether I am
--
   – Megan Rapinoe
     __________________________________________________________________

Pride Month Quotes on Changing History

   Quotes on Changing History Quotes on Changing History

--
   – Bayard Rustin
     __________________________________________________________________

Pride Month Quotes on Disarming Fear

   Happy Smiling Person Happy Smiling Person

--
   – Bayard Rustin
     __________________________________________________________________

Quotes for Pride Month About Freedom

   Two Queer People Together Two Queer People Together

--

Quotes on Making the World A Better Place for All

   Pride Month Quotes on Making the World a Better Place Pride Month
   Quotes on Making the World a Better Place

     59. “A long time ago I asked myself, ‘Do I want to be right, or do I
--

     69. “I want to make sure that any young person or anyone really who
     is looking up to me—who sees a glimpse of I am as a person—that they
     see no shame, that they see pride, and that I’m truly unabashed
     about the person that I am.”

   – Samira Wiley
--
   – Hunter Schafer
     __________________________________________________________________

Frequently Asked Questions About Pride Month

   Pride Month FAQ Pride Month FAQ

What is Pride Month?

   Pride Month is a time for the LGBT community and allies to come
   together in celebration, solidarity, activism, reflection, and support
   of all LGBTQIA+ people (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer,
   intersex, and asexual).

   While a Pride Parade or Pride March are often part of Pride
   celebrations, there’s more to this holiday than parades! Pride can be a
   meaningful time to learn about the historical and present struggles and
   exclusion of LGBT people.

When is Pride Month?

   Pride Month is celebrated during the month of June. In 2023, Pride
   Month will be June 1-30, 2023.

Where is Pride Month celebrated?

   Pride Month is primarily celebrated in the United States. However, you
   can find Pride Month festivities around the globe – even in areas where
   it is not an officially recognized occasion.

How did Pride begin?

   Pride originated as a celebration of the one-year anniversary of the
   Stonewall Uprising (sometimes called the Stonewall Riots). In the early
   hours of June 28, 1969, police conducted a raid on a gay bar called the
   Stonewall Inn in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New York City.
--
   Unfortunately, during this time, being gay was a criminal offense. In
   fact, it was illegal to serve alcohol to a gay person until 1966. Raids
   on gay bars were standard procedure, but this raid would go down in
   history as the birth of the Pride movement.

   Led by courageous transwomen, people at the Stonewall Inn protested the
   raid, leading to a six-day-long resistance. By just the second evening,
--
   many people became more engaged in activism and advocating for the
   equal treatment for LGBT people.

   The first Pride march was held one year later, on June 28, 1970.

   Learn more about the Stonewall Uprising from the Library of Congress.
     __________________________________________________________________

   We wish you and your team a safe, happy, and celebratory Pride! If
   you’re looking for more Pride Month ideas, explore our guide, 16+ Pride
   Work Ideas. Additionally, you can book our Pride Month virtual team
   building experience!

Why Virtual Team Building and DEI training?</text>
</page> §
<page="en-40">
<text>     * Login
     * Menu Menu

Is It Permissible to Have Pride? Is There Such Thing as Good Pride?

   [June 28, 2022] [Shaykh Yusuf Weltch]/in Adab, Living Religion,
   Spirituality
--

Question

   What can we have pride in? Is there a good pride? I heard that we can
   have pride in battle as that gives us more strength or the feeling of
   strength, but my question is, does this mean any battle?

   If I was playing in a sports match could I have pride in myself? Also,
   is there a good type of pride?

Answer

--
   Your question is another reflection of the difficulty and the downside
   of translation from Arabic to English. There are many words in the
   Arabic language that translate into words of similar meaning in
   English. One example of this is the words translated as pride.

   The word Kibr (translated as pride or arrogance) has a very bad
   connotation, whereas, the word Fakhr (translated as pride, also) can
   have a good connotation. Let’s define each as they are understood in
   the Arabic language.

Kibr

   Kibr (pride or arrogance) comes from the word Kabir, meaning to be
   great. Thus this word means the state of a person who deems themselves
   great in comparison to others. This is always a blameworthy
   characteristic for all created beings; this is because only Allah Most
   High is absolutely great: hence the saying Allahu Akbar. [Ghazali, Ihya
   ‘Ulum al-Din]

   To act out one’s pride (kibr), either inwardly or outwardly, is sinful.

Inward Manifestations of Pride

   The inward manifestation of pride is explained in the following
   Prophetic narration:

   The Messenger of Allah (may Allah bless him and give him peace) said,
   “No one who has an atom’s weight of pride (kibr) in their heart will
   enter Paradise.” A man (amongst the Companions) said, “Surely a person
   loves that his clothes look good and that his shoes look good.” The
   Messenger replied, “Indeed, Allah is beautiful and loves beauty. Pride
   (kibr) is to refuse to accept the truth and to look down on people.”
   [Muslim]

Outward Manifestations of Pride

   The outward manifestations of pride are many. Here are some of them:
     * Walking haughtily
     * Allowing their garments to drag on the floor, to show their status
     * Speaking harshly to people
--
   All of the above are prohibited in the Sacred Law. The only exception
   to some of the above is in the context of standing up against
   arrogant/oppressive people. The Great Yahya bin Muadh (Allah be pleased
   with him) said, “Showing pride in the face of a prideful person is
   humility.” i.e. it is warranted in some situations if done with the
   right intention.

--
   ص442 – كتاب رياض الصالحين ت الفحل – باب تحريم احتقار المسلمين – المكتبة
   الشاملة

   Tags: advice, arrogance, counsel, deal, kibr, manifestations, pride,
   proudness

Share this entry
--
     * Share on LinkedIn
     * Share by Mail

   https://seekersguidance.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/pride-and-anger-
   e1656699835677.jpg 517 1000 Mehraj ud din
   https://seekersguidance.org/svg/Logo/SG_Logo_v23.svg Mehraj ud
   din2022-06-28 10:30:132022-07-01 18:24:02Is It Permissible to Have
   Pride? Is There Such Thing as Good Pride?

Related Posts</text>
</page> §
<page="en-41">
<text>     * Contact
     * Search

25 Important Examples of Pride in the Bible

   Mar 5, 2022Mar 8, 2022 by Editor in Chief

   According to the Bible, pride is when you think too highly of yourself.
   Sinful pride usually involves you thinking and acting in a way that
   shows you think you are better than God and/or the people around you.

   Since not all pride is sin, let’s look at 25 important examples of
   pride in the Bible to learn exactly what sinful pride is so we can
   examine our own pride in our lives.

1. Jesus is Beat and Mocked by the Guards

--
   the Jews!’ And they spit on him and took the reed and struck him on the
   head.” (Matthew 27:27-30 ESV)

   C.S. Lewis said, “the essential vice, the utmost evil, is Pride.” We
   see pride, the utmost evil, in action as the guards take the King of
   the Universe, Jesus Christ, and treat Him as if He were no better than
   dirt. They beat and mock Jesus before sending Him to the cross,
   treating Jesus as though He were inferior to them.
--
   Spirit.'” (Acts 8:18-19 ESV)

   Simon saw the Holy Spirit work through the Apostles, and he wanted the
   same gift. In an ultimate act of pride, Simon tried to buy the gift of
   the Holy Spirit with money. He tried to take a gift that came from
   God’s grace and buy it for his prideful pleasure.

4. The Pride in All of Our Hearts

   “Therefore God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to impurity,
   to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves, because they
--

   There are points in all of our lives where we sin by doing what God
   does not want us to do.  We choose to use the good things that God has
   given us for selfish pleasure. We are being prideful people by doing
   what we want instead of what the Creator has called us to do.

5. Adam and Eve Eat the Forbidden Fruit
--

   When God made the universe, He gave the first humans, Adam and Eve, one
   rule. That was not to eat the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good
   and evil. Due to their pride, they thought they knew more than God and
   ate the fruit anyway.

6. Saul Persecutes the Church
--

   Saul, who would later become the apostle Paul, who wrote most of the
   New Testament, persecuted the early church. Before Saul met Jesus, he
   was a prideful person who thought he was better than the Jewish
   Christians. Saul thought he had the right to beat, imprison, and kill
   them.

--
   appearance.” (1 Samuel 17:41-42 ESV)

   The Philistine, who is Goliath, looks at the young man David and thinks
   David is not a worthy opponent to fight. Goliath’s sinful pride only
   allows him to look at the outside of David, not his heart. It is a good
   thing that God judges our hearts and not by our physical appearances.

--
   Nebuchadnezzar has set up.'” (Daniel 3:1&amp;4-5 ESV)

   In the book of Daniel, King Nebuchadnezzar makes a giant gold statue of
   himself and forces everyone to bow to it. The sin of pride is seen here
   by Nebuchadnezzar making much of himself instead of God. Later in the
   book of Daniel, Nebuchadnezzar’s pride leads to him having a very hard
   time in his life.

9. The Pharisee Judges the Sinner Woman
--
   puts a lovely smelling perfume on Him. The Pharisee, instead of seeing
   a woman who needs the love of Christ Jesus, judges her and sees a woman
   who he thinks is the scum of society (as someone fulfilling mens’ lust
   of the flesh). This prideful person judges the woman because he views
   himself as better than her.

10. The Pride of the Haughty Spirit

   “Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.”
   (Proverbs 16:18 ESV)

   The book of Proverbs is full of teaching on pride. “Haughty” means that
   you think you are superior or that you have an exalted sense of
   yourself. People who have a haughty spirit are full of pride because
   they believe they are better than those around them.

11. Opposition of the Proud
--
   “But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, ‘God opposes the proud but
   gives grace to the humble.'” (James 4:6 ESV)

   There is such a thing as good pride in the Bible. However, most of the
   time that pride is mentioned in Scripture, it is something we want to
   oppose. Often, people whose life is marked by this pride do not
   understand their need for grace or humility.

12. Judas Sells Jesus for 30 Pieces of Silver
--
   he sought an opportunity to betray him.” (Matthew 26:14-17 ESV)

   Even though Judas traveled with Jesus for three years, hearing Him
   teach God’s word, he sold Jesus for 30 pieces of silver. In a prideful
   moment of defiance, Judas thought he was better than Jesus and was
   willing to trade Jesus to those that wanted to kill Him.

--
   than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but
   the one who humbles himself will be exalted.'” (Luke 18:9-14 ESV)

   Pride can be seen in the Pharisee because he thinks he is better than
   the tax collector because of his good works. However, we see the tax
   collector crying out for God’s mercy because of his sin. Wise men boast
   in the Lord and not the good things they do.

14. Pride in Your Possessions

   “For all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires
   of the eyes and pride in possessions—is not from the Father but is from
   the world.” (1st John 2:16 ESV)

   The world will teach us to find our worth in what we look like and own.
   However, this is the perspective of the proud person who is of this
   world. We have worth in God because He is the Creator of the world.

15. Pride in the Good Gifts God Has Gave Us

   “Thus says the Lord: “‘Let not the wise man boast in his wisdom, let
   not the mighty man boast in his might, let not the rich man boast in
--
   the Lord.'” (Jeremiah 9:23-24 ESV)

   It would be easy for us to boast about the things that we are good at
   or have a lot of. However, that comes from pride because everything we
   have comes from God. Instead, we should boast in God because we get
   everything from Him!

16. Pride Prevents Us from Serving Others

   “Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count
   others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only
   to his own interests, but also to the interests of others.”
   (Philippians 2:3-4 ESV)

   Humility is the exact opposite of pride. Pride tells us to put
   ourselves at the center of the universe. However, humility actually
   calls us to love and serve the people around us by looking out for
   their interests.

17. Hidden Pride in the Disciples

   “An argument arose among them as to which of them was the greatest. But
   Jesus, knowing the reasoning of their hearts, took a child and put him
--
   who is least among you all is the one who is great.”‘ (Luke 9:46-48
   ESV)

   People often have pride and do not even know it is hiding in their
   hearts. For example, when the disciples are fighting over who will be
   the greatest in the kingdom of heaven, Jesus shows them that those who
   are greatest have nothing to do with position but has to do with those
   who are willing to serve.

   Jonathan Edwards, who was one of America’s most important theologians
   and died in 1758, wrote an essay called Undetected Spiritual Pride. He
   listed seven sneaky (or subtle) symptoms of pride. They are:
    1. Price: the Great Fault-Finder
          + This is when we criticize other people or note how they don’t
            measure up.
    2. Pride: Ministering in a Harsh Spirit
          + This is when we are unkind to others, even other Christians,
            and do not treat them as Christ treats them.
    3. Pride: Putting on Pretenses
          + This is when we act differently than we are, because we want
            to please others.
    4. Pride: Takes Offense Easily
          + This is when we act mean or bitterly when we have been
            offended, instead of being quiet and letting God be the Judge.
    5. Pride: Presumption Before God and Man
          + This is when we are too bold or confident before God, instead
            of treating him with the awe and reverence He deserves.
    6. Pride: Hungry for Attention
          + This is when we do things because we want to be noticed, or we
            think everyone needs our help.
    7. Pride: Neglecting Others
          + This is when we avoid others, especially those who we view to
            be sinful or unteachable. Instead, as Christ came down to our
            level, so should we with others who need spiritual guidance.

   Reading and understanding these symptoms of spiritual pride show us
   “the main door by which the devil comes into the hearts of those who
   are zealous for the advancement of Christ.” (Jonathan Edwards) He says
   that spiritual pride is so important because from it comes all the
   other bad behaviors that lead us astray.

18. Pride in Building a Tower to Reach God

   “Then they said, ‘Come, let us build ourselves a city and a tower with
   its top in the heavens, and let us make a name for ourselves, lest we
--

   At this point in history, there was one language. In this Bible verse,
   the proud people think that they can build a tower to God and be better
   than Him. Since God hates pride, He humbles the people by changing
   their languages and spreading them worldwide.

19. Herod Tries to Be God
--
   he was eaten by worms and breathed his last.” (Acts 12:21-23 ESV)

   Herod puts himself in the place of God by allowing people to worship
   him as a god. The ultimate sign of pride is thinking and allowing
   others to believe that you are God.

20. Pharaoh Refuses to Listen to God
--

   God tells Pharoah by the mouth of Moses to let His people, the
   Israelites, go from slavery under the Egyptians so that they may serve
   the Lord. In a sign of his pride, Pharaoh tells God “no” multiple
   times, is plagued, repents, and then tells God “no” again.

   God plagued Pharoah a total of ten different times:
--

   God continued to give Pharoah chances to obey Him, and began the
   plagues with the least harm to increasing harm as Pharoah continued to
   renege on his promises in his displays of self-righteous pride.

21. The Pride of Haughty Eyes

   “Haughty eyes and a proud heart, the lamp of the wicked, are sin.”
   (Proverbs 21:4 ESV)

   Haughty eyes are often associated with looking down at others. This
   shows that your heart is full of pride because you think you are better
   than others. Instead of looking down on others, we should be looking up
   to God and praying to Him for humble hearts because God gives grace to
   the humble.
--
   so often sadly see in this world today. We are called to love and walk
   in the image of Christ.

22. The Deception of Pride

   “For if anyone thinks he is something, when he is nothing, he deceives
   himself.” (Galatians 6:3 ESV)

   Prideful people think that they are something special, when none of us
   can compare to God. The good news is that even though we are not
   something, our God is. We get to know the one who created it all.

23. Uzziah’s Pride Leads to Death of Many

   “But when he was strong, he grew proud, to his destruction. For he was
   unfaithful to the Lord his God and entered the temple of the Lord to
--
   Uzziah is leading Israel successfully as their king, which leads him to
   go into the temple and give an offering that was not his job. While
   this may seem like a little thing, he did not listen to the rules God
   put in place. The consequences of pride led to the death of many.

24. Jonah Flees From God

--

   The Lord tells Jonah to go and preach about His grace in Nineveh, but
   Jonah does not want to because he does not want those in Nineveh to get
   a second chance. Jonah’s pride led him to run in the opposite direction
   from God. He had so much pride that he thought he could outrun God.

25. Loving Yourself More Than God

--
   The last days are the period of time from the resurrection of Jesus to
   His second coming. During these last times, people will choose to love
   themselves over loving God by giving in to all the sin mentioned in
   these Bible verses. They will be swollen with conceit (pride) because
   they will put other people and things above their love for God.

Conclusion

   The Hebrew word for “pride” can literally be translated as “high.” The
   Hebrew word for “pride” can also be translated as “haughtiness,”
   “boastfulness,” “arrogance,” or “conceit.” As we see from every one of
   these 25 great examples above, sinful pride is when you choose to love
   yourself more than God and the people around you.

   Pride is the opposite of humility or being a humble person with a
   humble spirit and a humble heart. People full of pride choose to use
   God and others to lift themselves up. Where do you see yourself lifting
   up yourself or making yourself the center of attention over God and
   other people?
--
     * 50 Most Profitable Youth Group Fundraising Ideas for Your Church
     * 50 Best Verses from Psalms for Funerals
     * 250 Ice Breaker Questions for Teen Youth Groups
     * 25 Important Examples of Pride in the Bible
     * 10 Powerful Ways to Draw Near to God
     * 50 Great Examples of Grace in the Bible
     * 25 Ways to Set Your Mind on Things Above
--
     * 50 Most Profitable Youth Group Fundraising Ideas for Your Church
     * 50 Best Verses from Psalms for Funerals
     * 250 Ice Breaker Questions for Teen Youth Groups
     * 25 Important Examples of Pride in the Bible
     * 10 Powerful Ways to Draw Near to God
     * 50 Great Examples of Grace in the Bible
     * 25 Ways to Set Your Mind on Things Above</text>
</page> §
<page="en-42">
<text>   ____________________
   Contentment Working Woman

Examples of Pride in the Bible

   by Godsplanguidedsteps
   No Comments
   Featured Image

   Examples of Pride in the Bible are plentiful. However, there are three
   general characteristics that are described in the Bible for these
   prideful and arrogant people. There is one person who stands out as an
   example of pride in the Bible. That is King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon.

General Examples of Pride in the Bible

1. The Prideful Tell Lies

   Those who are prideful will tell lies to make themselves look good.
   Anything to puff themselves up.
   proud, arrogant woman

   Now I don’t know if these prideful people start out with this intention
   or not. But we all have a sinful nature and when our eyes see it as
   good, then we continue on that path. And one lie begets another and
   another.

     For the sin of their mouths, the words of their lips, let them be
     trapped in their pride. For the cursing and lies that they utter,
     Psalm 59:12 ESV

   As we see from this verse, their words enslave them. A person who lies
--
   this world. And the father of lies, who is Satan himself (John 8:44
   ESV)

2. The Prideful Mock Others

   These people who are acting with arrogance have a name, according to
   Solomon. Their name is described by their actions.

     “Scoffer” is the name of the arrogant, haughty man who acts with
     arrogant pride.
     Proverbs 21:24 ESV

   They openly mock others because they believe their views are subpar to
--
   who faced rejection on a daily basis. He can identify with your
   cancellation.

3. The Prideful are Deceived

   While the prideful appear In this life to have it all, they really
   don’t. And are being deceived.

     The pride of your heart has deceived you, you who live in the clefts
     of the rock, in your lofty dwelling, who say in your heart, “Who
     will bring me down to the ground?”
     Obadiah 1:3: ESV

   Example of pride in the Bible Pride robs a person of peace and joy

   This deception comes from their heart. They devise a plan that is evil.
   They think that their plan will give them the satisfaction that they
--
     peace have joy.
     Proverbs 12:20 ESV

A Biblical Character Example of Pride: King Nebuchadnezzar

   In the story of Daniel, King Nebuchadnezzar sieged Babylon and took
   captives, including some youth. Daniel and his three friends, Shadrach,
--
   Babylon and his three friends were over the affairs of the province of
   Babylon.

Pride on Display

   So Nebuchadnezzar made a statue like the one in his dream and commanded
   everyone to bow down and worship this statue. If they did not, they
--

     Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the King of
     heaven, for all his works are right and his ways are just; and those
     who walk in pride he is able to humble.
     Daniel 4:37 ESV

   Once he repented and humbled himself before God, he was restored as the
--

A Personal Example

   When I was prideful in my previous job, God humbled me. My job was
   eliminated and I had the choice to take severance and leave or take a
   position in another department. I chose to stay and moved to the other
   department. While it was a humbling experience, God taught me that my
--
   I have been blessed even more in this position because I learned from
   that step of humility to give Him the glory in the work that I do.

   Are you walking in pride? Repent today, God is able to humble you as
   well.

   ******
--
Like this:

   Like Loading...
   Tags: contentment, pride, Working woman

Related Posts</text>
</page> §
<page="en-43">
<text>     * AF Latino
     *

The Kings of Pride

   News and Features | Inside Report Archives
       | The Kings of Pride

   The Kings of Pride
   By Pastor Doug Batchelor
   An Amazing Fact: Joshua Abraham Norton suffered from delusions of
   grandeur. He preferred to be called His Imperial Majesty Norton I, and
--
   a tale about two scheming 19th century friends. The former soldiers set
   off from British India in search of adventure — and ended up as kings
   in what is now part of Afghanistan. It’s a fascinating study of how
   their rise to regal power slowly unleashes the latent pride in their
   hearts, changing their characters and dividing them as friends.
   Most of us have heard the expression “power corrupts, and absolute
   power corrupts absolutely.” This is especially true for monarchs, who
   are exposed to the temptations of pride more than the average person.
   The Bible is replete with examples of men who would be king, and kings
   who wanted to be divine. In fact, we learn that sin entered our
   universe through the portal of pride …
   The Angel Who Would Be God
   In Isaiah 14, we find a fascinating portrait of the first casualty of
   pride’s poison. It’s the story of how the devil became a devil.
   Of course, we know that God did not create the devil. Rather, He
   created a dazzlingly beautiful angel named Lucifer, who was the highest
   of the cherubim, the leader of the heavenly choir, and the most
--
   NKJV, emphasis added). Lucifer clearly had “I” problems.
   As the wayward angel spread his disaffection among the other angels,
   eventually God had to evict him from the courts of glory. But that
   wasn’t the end of pride in God’s creation. In fact, it was the first
   type of temptation that Lucifer, now better known as Satan, presented
   to Adam and Eve. He told them that if they would merely eat the
   forbidden fruit, their eyes would be opened and they would be like God,
   implanting in their hearts and minds his own arrogant desires. And it
   worked.
   Ultimately, pride is a form of idolatry — making ourselves an object of
   worship. The proud aspirations of the devil throughout the great
   controversy all revolve around “me, myself, and I.” And in Ezekiel 28,
   we find a few more details on the many facets of pride that led to
   Lucifer’s fall — pride of power, position, possession, intelligence,
   appearance, and more. The chapter should be a wake-up call to
   Christians in the final era of human history, because these selfish
   characteristics still contribute to the fall of those who eventually
   grieve away the Spirit of the Lord. Indeed, pride is the invisible
   dragnet with which the devil captures the most confident of God’s
   people.

--
   heart to Jesus.
   Request your free copy of The Surrender of Self

   The Pride of Power

   “Thou wast upon the holy mountain of God; thou hast walked up and down
   in the midst of the stones of fire” (Ezekiel 28:14). The Bible spends a
   lot of time on kings who were overcome with pride in their own power,
   which gives the one who wields it incredible attention and adoration,
   feeding selfishness to no end.

   Nebuchadnezzar struggled with this particular pride problem. At the
   zenith of his power, the great Babylonian king had a dream about a tree
   from which the whole world was fed and where every bird found a place
   to roost in its branches. Later he watches the tree being cut down, and
--

   Sounds like the devil, doesn’t it? He took irresponsible credit for
   everything over which he was given reign. God took this precise moment
   in time to send a striking judgment on the prideful king. “While the
   word was in the king’s mouth, there fell a voice from heaven, saying, O
   king Nebuchadnezzar, to thee it is spoken; The kingdom is departed from
   thee” (v. 31).
--
   the one who deserves our praise, no matter how much power we possess in
   this world. When God gives us the ability to influence others, we
   shouldn’t treat it as if we did it all on our own. We should use that
   power with deep humility. Because of his pride, Nebuchadnezzar lost
   everything. Pride can also bring Christians to a place where we lose
   our access to the kingdom of God, just as it did with the devil.

   Pride in Position

   “Thou art the anointed cherub that covereth; and I have set thee so”
   (Ezekiel 28:14). Some people grow proud of their position at work and
   in life. It is part of the same myriad of issues the devil struggled
   with before he had to be cast out of heaven. Haman in the book of
   Esther provides another prime example of self-destructive pride on
   display in the Bible.

   The mighty Xerxes of Persia learned that a Jew named Mordecai had saved
--
   king, had become angry with Mordecai because the devout Jew would not
   bow before the haughty noble. Haman became so angry, in fact, that he
   wanted to kill all the Jews in the land.
   As Haman’s inflated pride continued to fester, he bragged to his
   friends “of the glory of his riches, and the multitude of his children,
   and all the things wherein the king had promoted him, and how he had
   advanced him above the princes and servants of the king” (Esther 5:11).
--
   because of his own high royal standing. Yet before he could ask the
   king for permission, Xerxes asks Haman, “What should be done for the
   man the king delights to honor?”
   Pride, a distorted mirror that obstructs clear thinking and reason,
   allowed Haman to see only himself. Filled with conceit, “Haman thought
   in his heart, ‘Whom would the king delight to honor more than me?’ ”
   (Esther 6:6 NKJV). The noble quickly devised the most extravagant
--
   Well, can you imagine Haman’s shock with what followed: “The king said
   to Haman, Make haste … as thou hast said, and do even so to Mordecai
   the Jew. … Let nothing fail of all that thou hast spoken” (v. 10).
   Haman was commanded to honor the man his pride so desperately wanted to
   murder.
   The Bible says, “When pride cometh, then cometh shame” (Proverbs 11:2).
   The story of Haman is a great example of the ultimate payout of pride.
   He was hung on the gallows he had built for Mordecai.
   This pride of position even infected those closest to Jesus. In Mark 9,
   we find the disciples arguing about which one of them will be greatest
   in Jesus’ kingdom. It was as if they had never heard one of Jesus’ most
   powerful lessons to them: “He who is greatest among you shall be your
--
   you’ve been passed over at your job because of favoritism rather than
   skill? Don’t let it bother you. Be content to serve where God has put
   you. Christ in His time will lift you up.
   Spiritual Pride
   Spiritual pride is a hidden pit in which many unsuspecting Christians
   have fallen. It is especially insidious because it masquerades as
   virtue. The Old Testament King Uzziah was generally a good ruler, but
   he fell through religious pride. He thought he deserved the same
   privileges as the priests. King Saul also lost his kingdom after
   usurping the responsibilities of the priesthood.
   Jesus addressed this fatal flaw in one of His most familiar parables.
--
   before God. But the publican had simple trust in God’s mercy. The
   publican is forgiven, but the Pharisee isn’t. We can’t miss that lesson
   if we want to grow in Christ.
   Spiritual pride is deadly — and it is the bane of the Laodicean church.
   When a person or church says, “I am rich and increased with goods,”
   that’s nothing more than selfish spiritual pride. And God has something
   to say about that. He says that we’re really “poor and wretched and
   blind and naked and don’t know it.” The more spiritually proud you
   become, the more spiritually poor you are. But those who recognize and
--
   In the classic Christ’s Object Lessons, by Ellen White, we learn “The
   evil that led to Peter’s fall and that shut out the Pharisee from
   communion with God is proving the ruin of thousands today. There is
   nothing so offensive to God or so dangerous to the human soul as pride
   and self-sufficiency. Of all sins it is the most hopeless, the most
   incurable” (p. 154).
   That’s why Jesus said, “Beware of the scribes, which love to go in long
--
   in the synagogues, and the uppermost rooms at feasts: Which devour
   widows’ houses, and for a pretence make long prayers” (Mark 12:38 –
   40). These men, says Jesus, will receive even greater condemnation
   because of their unchecked pride.
   Are you encumbered with spiritual pride? Are you proud of your
   knowledge of Bible doctrines? Do you go to church mocking those who
   don’t go the same day as you? Be warned of the spirit of your heart and
   the reasons why you do religious things. Pride is the seed that Satan
   planted to get Jesus nailed to the cross. In Mark 15, we’re told,
   “Pilate answered them [the Jewish leadership], saying, ‘Do you want me
   to release to you the King of the Jews?’ For he knew that the chief
   priests had handed Him over because of envy” (vs. 9, 10 NKJV). It
   offended their pride that Jesus threatened their prominence among the
   people, so they killed Him.
   The Power of Humility
   We’ve examined the destructive power of pride in the life of great
   kings and God’s people. Let’s conclude this study with a little lesson
   on the restorative power of choosing humility.
   The Bible tells us over and over that God wants humble hearts in His
   people. It teaches, “He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what
   doth the LORD require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and
   to walk humbly with thy God?” (Micah 6:8, emphasis added).
   Pride is a compass needle that always points to self. But we can choose
   to resist that natural tendency. Through God’s Spirit, we can choose to
   be humble. The Bible doesn’t say we should ask God to humble us;
   instead, we are repeatedly invited to humble ourselves (2 Chronicles
--
   realize our true status if God is going to transform us from a worm to
   a butterfly.
   Be Like Christ
   The contrasting examples of Pharaoh’s pride and Moses’ meekness are a
   symbol of Lucifer and Jesus. And each one of us must choose to imitate
   the traits of one or the other. So here is a final unfailing principle
   you should know: God most exalts those who are most humble and humbles</text>
</page> §
<page="en-44">
<text>
   Local News

Father's "straight pride" flag lawsuit against Denver Public Schools could
succeed in court

   colorado
--
     *
     *

   "Straight pride" flag lawsuit against DPS could succeed in court
   (BUTTON)

   "Straight pride" flag lawsuit against DPS could succeed in court 02:25

   A lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court by one Denver Public Schools
   father alleging his two children have been denied their First Amendment
   rights to have a "straight pride" flag in school may stand a chance in
   court.

   "This is not a groundbreaking lawsuit. This is just a controversial
--
   and ChadLaVeglia. The lawsuit argues Nathan Feldman, a father of two
   children attending the K-8 Slavens School in Denver, was denied being
   able to put up a cisgendered, heterosexual flag at school. He says a
   "straight pride" flag represents his children's beliefs and should be
   allowed on campus in the same way LGBTQ+ flags are allowed.

   RELATED: Parent sues Denver Public Schools for his children's right to
   have "straight pride flags" displayed in school

   A spokesperson for LGBTQ Colorado sent the following statement in
   response to the lawsuit:

   A Pride flag is not meant to be exclusive – it is designed to be
   inclusive. It is meant to draw attention and humanity to people who
   historically have been considered "illegal", ostracized, excluded, and
   for too long quiet victims of discrimination and violence.

   A Straight Pride Flag speaks "us vs them" wherein a Pride flag lifts up
   an "all of us" dynamic that recognizes the too often quiet and quieted
   LGBTQ+ community.</text>
</page> §
<page="en-45">
<text>
   History | January/February 2024

Descendants of Black Civil War Heroes Wear Their Heritage With Pride

   A bold new photographic project asks modern-day Americans to recreate
   portraits of their 19th-century ancestors in painstakingly accurate
--
   in the U.S. Army who wasn’t famous in his own right but was the son of
   the famed Frederick Douglass. After that, the task got much more
   challenging.
   Descendants of Black Civil War Heroes Wear Their Heritage With Pride
   Louis Troutman was a member of the 108th Regiment of the United States
   Colored Infantry. The unit, formed in Kentucky, was composed mainly of
   formerly enslaved Black men. Thomas Harris Collection Christopher
--
   burglars who set the building on fire, are determined that the flames
   shall only be extinguished by Indo-Caucasian hands, and to have the
   building burnt rather than save it by means of any other. Such is the
   pride, the stupid prejudice and folly that rules the hour.”

   The Emancipation Proclamation of January 1, 1863, opened the way for
   Black men to enlist. The proclamation ensured that the military would
--
   him serving with the 25th U.S. Infantry at Fort Clark in Texas.

   Neikoye and Judah put on white gloves so they can hold their ancestor’s
   memento and think about the pride he must have felt when he spent his
   own money to have it made. “They’re going to remember everything about
   this trip,” Janisse says, watching her 9-year-old twins. “And hopefully
   it turns that page in history where they can brag about this to their</text>
</page> §
<page="en-46">
<text>
   New Jersey Devils

Devils find loophole for players to wear Pride-themed jerseys

NHL barred players from wearing any themed jerseys on ice

--
   such sweaters off the ice.

   The Devils are holding a "Hockey is for Everyone" Night – essentially a
   Pride Night – on Thursday against the Edmonton Oilers.

   CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM
   Nico Hischier and Akira Schmid

   Nico Hischier and Akira Achmid wear New Jersey Devils Pride jerseys.

   The organization had a local designer, Kathryn Kennedy, design
   Pride-themed sweaters, and members of the team entered Prudential
   Center wearing them.

   "Coming out is certainly something that’s not always easy, and it can
   take a while for someone to feel comfortable enough to do it," Kennedy
   said. "I can only hope that this design, and Pride Night, helps someone
   else feel respected, even, and welcome.

   "These theme nights let people who are apart of their respective
   communities know that they’re seen, heard, and welcome, that this is
   something for them. It’s a huge honor to be involved in the Devils'
   Pride Night, and my hope is that I’ve created something that helps
   others feel accepted and appreciated."

   Coordinating with the league's policy, the uniforms were not worn on
   the ice during warm-ups. The Devils say they will be auctioned off.
   devils pride jersey

   A New Jersey Devils Pride jersey

   While the jerseys were not worn on the ice, members of both teams,
   including the best player on earth in Connor McDavid, put Pride tape on
   his stick during warm-ups. The league originally banned Pride tape when
   the new jersey regulations were put in place, but after players defied
   it, that ban was reversed.

--

   NHL LEGEND JAROMIR JAGR, 51, BEGINS 36TH SEASON OF PROFESSIONAL HOCKEY

   The Arizona Coyotes were the first team to hold a Pride night this
   season, with members of the team, similar to the Devils, entering their
   arena with such jerseys.

   Earlier this season, goalie Marc-Andre Fleury was threatened with
   punishment if he wore a Native American-themed mask to honor his wife's
   background. He did so anyway.
   Pride stick

   A view of the stick of Washington Capitals right wing Tom Wilson
   displaying rainbow stick tape as part of Pride Night during warm-ups
   before the Capitals' game against the Boston Bruins at Capital One
   Arena. (Geoff Burke-USA TODAY Sports)

   CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP

   The issue was brought to light last season when Philadelphia Flyers'
   Ivan Provorov opted not to wear the team's Pride-themed jersey during
   warm-ups, citing his religion. Other players and teams followed suit
   for various reasons, ultimately leading NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman
   to nix all themed jerseys to "keep the focus on the game."</text>
</page> §
<page="en-47">
<text>
Moved

Pride

Determination

--

Hope

Pride

   The feeling when you possess or have accomplished something that other
   people find praiseworthy. You feel vigorous and have the urge to show
   off to others.

   Pride is primarily about yourself, even when it is not you who did
   something that you are proud about. You can also be proud of something
   someone else did, who you associate with, such as your children or your
   favorite football team. People can feel proud of their culture, their
--
   of others are of crucial importance, as best demonstrated when you
   purposefully do something that other people praise.

   Pride is a social emotion, and to feel proud, you need other people’s
   (real or imagined) confirmation that you have a reason to feel that
   way. Because of this, other people can also ‘be in your head’ and
   prevent you from feeling pride. Namely, what is praiseworthy is
   subjective. Things that may be considered good in a certain (cultural)
   group may not be praiseworthy in another (e.g., if you grew up in a
   family that greatly values academics, your athletic abilities may not
--
   you). Thus, the more exclusive your quality is in your surroundings,
   the prouder you feel.

   Pride has recognizable features. Although its static facial expression
   (typically a smile or laugh) does not clearly distinguish it from other
   positive emotions, it typically results in a bodily posture, gestures,
   and behavior that are clearly recognizable: lifting your chin, looking
--
   more noticeable, as if to say: ‘look at me!’ You may also exhibit more
   perseverance in your activities^2.

   People generally find it very pleasant to experience pride, as it
   elevates our feeling of social self-worth and status^3. At the same
   time, many social groups, religions, and cultures (especially those
   that are highly collectivistic, such as the East Asian or African
   culture) believe that pride needs to be checked. Unchecked pride leads
   to arrogance and misplaced feelings of superiority (‘letting something
   get to your head’, ‘hubris comes before the fall’), and social groups
   typically do not tolerate members feeling like they are superior or
--

    1. Ben-Ze'ev, A. (2000). The subtlety of emotions (p.491). MIT press.
       [BOOK]
    2. Williams, L. A., &amp; DeSteno, D. (2008). Pride and perseverance: The
       motivational role of pride. Journal of Personality and Social
       Psychology, 94(6), 1007–1017. [ARTICLE]
    3. van Osch, Y. M. J., Breugelmans, S. M., Zeelenberg, M., &amp; Fontaine,
       J. J. R. (2013). The meaning of pride across cultures. In:
       Components of emotional meaning: A sourcebook. (pp.377-387). Oxford
       University Press. [BOOK]
    4. Wierzbicka, A. (1999). Emotions across languages and cultures:</text>
</page> §
<page="en-48">
<text>   #English Language Learners Stack Exchange Feed for question 'Do you say
   you feel pride 'for' something or you feel pride 'in' something?'

Stack Exchange Network

--
   and easy to search.
   Learn more about Teams

Do you say you feel pride 'for' something or you feel pride 'in' something?

   Ask Question
   Asked 7 years, 10 months ago
--
   2
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   Do you say you feel pride 'for' something or you feel pride 'in'
   something? 'For' feels right to me, but 'in' seems to make more sense.

   There are two statements where I need it. One is 'pride __ country' and
   the other is 'pride __ army'

   I want to talk about pride as a feeling; as a noun. For example
   "Nationalism is excessive pride of/in one's country'. I don't want to
   say "Nationalism is feeling excessively proud of one's country" or
   "Nationalism is taking excessive pride in one's country" as those
   unnecessarily complicate the sentence. Just to clarify, is the sentence
   "The parade instilled in them a pride in their country" wrong?
     * word-choice
     * prepositions

--
       – N A
       Feb 17, 2016 at 14:16
     * I don't have personal experience with it, but here says that you
       could say take pride in, while pride as a noun is just pride
       – drM.
       Feb 17, 2016 at 14:22
     * It would be helpful if you gave an example of the sentence you
       would like to use "feel pride for" in. If you mean to say "I feel
       pride" you might say "I am proud", like "I am proud of my skill".
       – ColleenV
       Feb 17, 2016 at 14:25
     * There are actually two sentences (Or rather, statements) where I
       need it. One is 'pride __ country' and the other is 'pride __
       army'.
       – N A
       Feb 17, 2016 at 14:28
--
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   Neither of OP's suggestions is "standard" English. You normally either
   take pride in something or you feel / are proud of [it, him, them,
   etc.].

   enter image description here
--
   But note that idiomatically there's a difference between...

     1: He is proud of his work
     2: He takes pride in his work

   ...where #1 means he feels his sense of self-worth is enhanced by the
   work that he has produced (because it's of a high quality; he expects
--
   69.4k44 gold badges8888 silver badges192192 bronze badges
   5
     * Those uses are both verbal (I don't know if that's the word, but I
       mean they describe an action) though. I want to talk about pride as
       a feeling; as a noun. For example "Nationalism is excessive pride
       of/in one's country'. I don't want to say "Nationalism is feeling
       excessively proud of one's country" or "Nationalism is taking
       excessive pride in one's country" as those unnecessarily complicate
       the sentence. Just to clarify, is the sentence "The parade
       instilled in them a pride in their country" wrong? @fumblefingers
       – N A
       Feb 17, 2016 at 14:45
     * @N A: I suppose you could define nationalism as "taking excessive
       pride in one's country", but personally I'd avoid any variant of
       pride/proud in that context, since it's normal for most Anglophones
       (particularly Americans) to strongly endorse patriotism
       (having/taking pride in one's country) whilst decrying nationalism
       (an extreme form of patriotism marked by a feeling of superiority
       over other countries.)
       – FumbleFingers
       Feb 17, 2016 at 14:53
     * I was just using that as an example. I made it up on the spot.
       Okay, so let's look at patriotism instead. Saying 'Patriotism is
       taking pride in one's country' implies that patriotism is something
       you do, doesn't it? Patriotism is not an action, but a feeling.
       @FumbleFingers
       – N A
       Feb 17, 2016 at 14:58
     * You're quite right. That's why I personally would always write The
       parade instilled in them a sense of pride in their country. But
       this isn't really about vocabulary or syntax as such - we're at the
       level of "writing advice" here.
       – FumbleFingers
       Feb 17, 2016 at 15:05
     * 'Sense of pride in' definitely sounds a lot better to me. I think
       that's what I was missing :) Thanks!
       – N A
       Feb 17, 2016 at 15:08
--

   I am proud of him - I feel proud because I helped him achieve something

   I have pride in him - I am proud that I am associatied with him

   I am proud for him - I feel empathetic pride because of his solo
   achievement

   You dont feel pride "for" something unless that thing is capable of
   feeling pride itself and you are emulating that feeling due to empathy.

   If you do something for "person", you are serving the persons benefit.
   If you do something for "object" you are attempting to obtain the
--
   2
   "Carry something in for you" or "carry something for you"
   0
   Pride oneself on something
   1
   Adjective for when skills are not improving and I'm depressed about it
   1</text>
</page> §
<page="en-49">
<text>
   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-KZR4P6F

   Pride Business Forum - logo Pride Business Forum - logo (BUTTON)
     * About us
          + About us
          + News
--
   Charity partner
   Moneta Moneta
   Founding members
   IBM IBM Hilton Hilton Prague Pride Prague Pride
   Premium members
   Vodafone Vodafone RWS Moravia RWS Moravia
   Moneta Moneta
--
   to help you. We ensure that the public and private sectors can work
   closely together on issues of LGBT+ workplace equality, and provide
   them with a unique opportunity to share direct experiences and best
   practice. Besides the annual Pride Business Forum conference, we
   organize smaller workshops or networking events.
   More

--

Conferences and workshops

   The annual Pride Business Forum conference is the biggest conference in
   the Czech Republic focusing on LGBT+ workplace equality. The conference
   has become the preferred place to network and share strategies and best
   practice that help to create inclusive workplaces for everyone. In
--

Awards

   The LGBT+ Friendly Employer and Pride Business Forum Heroes Awards
   recognize individuals and organizations who lead the way in advancing
   equality for LGBT+ employees at their workplace.
   More
--
   AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
   AAAAAAAAIAXA7U8AAGRQ3nKAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC] [DSC_3365.jpg]

4th Pride Business Forum Voices

   06/02/2024
   [png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAB4AAAAUAAQAAAACO9nKaAAAAAnRSTlMAAHa
--
   AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
   AAAAAAAAIAXA7U8AAGRQ3nKAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC] [PBF2023-4095.jpg]

14th Pride Business Forum Conference

   17/06/2024

--
   public on a regular basis. Don’t miss out!
   Show more events

   Mason Davis, Freedom For All Americans CEO and 2019 Pride Business
   Forum conference speaker, talks about topics related to LGBT equality
   that are currently trending in the USA. Mason Davis, Freedom For All
   Americans CEO and 2019 Pride Business Forum conference speaker, talks
   about topics related to LGBT equality that are currently trending in
   the USA.
   Trending topics in the USA related to LGBT equality
--
   LGBT workplace equality: Recommendation from Diversity and Inclusion
   Manager
   YouTube Video VVVIeDY0eFI2YXF5QmNCcmFpSDhscFVnLjA5MDc5NkE3NUQxNTM5MzI=
   Robert Krygsman, General Manager of Hilton Warsaw and 2019 Pride
   Business Forum conference speaker, compares his experiences working in
   liberal Western democracies with those in more conservative
   environments. Robert Krygsman, General Manager of Hilton Warsaw and
   2019 Pride Business Forum conference speaker, compares his experiences
   working in liberal Western democracies with those in more conservative
   environments.
   Liberal vs. conservative environment: The difference for LGBT employees
--

   Zatímco na Západě je největším spojencem LGBT+ lidí spíše stát, v Česku
   je to jednoznačně byznysová sféra, říká Czeslaw Walek, předseda správní
   rady organizace Pride Business Forum.

   Ekonom, září 2023
   More
--
   LinkedIn Instagram X YouTube


    Nadační fond Pride Business Forum | Rybná 716/24, Staré Město, 110 00
    Praha 1 | IČO 19090676

   Web made by</text>
</page> §
<page="en-5">
<text>     * Y
     * Z

Ego And Pride Quotes

     * facebook
     * twitter
--
     * [INS: :INS]
     * Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool I've
       ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. Because
       almost everything - all external expectations, all pride, all fear
       of embarrassment or failure - these things just fall away in the
       face of death, leaving only what is truly important.
       Steve Jobs
--
     * The reality is that everybody makes mistakes. The issue isn't
       whether you will make them, it's what you will do about them. It's
       whether you will choose the path of humility and courage or the
       path of ego and pride.
       Stephen Covey
       Motivational, Mistake, Humility
       Stephen M. R. Covey (2008). “The Speed of Trust: The One Thing that
--
       99 Copy quote
       Show source
     *
     * It is better to lose your pride with someone you love rather than
       to lose that someone you love with your useless pride.
       John Ruskin
       Pride, Someone You Love, Useless
       17 Copy quote
     *
     * You're going to make mistakes. The key is to learn from them as
       fast as possible and make changes as soon as you can. That's not
       always easy to do because ego and pride get in the way, but you
       have to put all that aside and look at the big picture.
       Tiger Woods
       Mistake, Pride, Keys
       14 Copy quote
     *
     * Proud people breed sad sorrows for themselves.
       Emily Bronte
       Pride, People, Sorrow
       Charlotte Bronte, Emily Bronte, Anne Bronte (2009). “The Bronte
       Sisters: Three Novels: Jane Eyre; Wuthering Heights; and Agnes Grey
       (Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition)”, p.407, Penguin
--
       Show source
     * [INS: :INS]
     * All peace-loving women shut up when they sense they have stepped
       onto Guy Turf. Guy Turf is a murky realm of ego and pride and
       chivalry and testosterone and heroism.
       Jeanne Marie Laskas
       Pride, Guy, Ego
       5 Copy quote
     *
     * Sitting with the poor and less fortunate people removes the ego and
       pride from your heart.
       Ibn Qayyim Al-Jawziyya
       Heart, Pride, People
       179 Copy quote
     *
     * I tried to laugh early on about ego and pride... I do something
       great and then I do something really dumb and then I laugh. You'll
       always be that kid.
       Matthew Ashford
       Kids, Pride, Laughing
       4 Copy quote
     *
     * In Business School they taught us about cash flow, not about
       corporate politics; about return on equity, not about egos and
       pride. Oh, there were optional courses on 'Organizational Behavior'
       and 'Managerial Skills,' but these were a little too bloodless to
       convey what I learned on the job.
       Mary Cunningham Agee
--
   You May Also Like Quotes On:
   Humble
   Humility
   Pride
   Ego
   Proud</text>
</page> §
<page="en-50">
<text>
    1. Community

PRIDE Forum

   [PRIDE-Forum.jpg]

   The PRIDE (Plastic and Reconstruction Inclusion Driving Equity) Forum
   develops programming and resources to support LGBTQIA+ plastic surgeons
   and residents. The mission of the PRIDE Forum is to support a community
   of LGBTQIA+ physicians, medical students and allies who advance the
   field of plastic surgery through education, advocacy and partnerships.

   If you are attending Plastic Surgery The Meeting, be sure to join us at
   the PRIDE Reception on Saturday night!

   Join the PRIDE Forum

   Take the PRIDE Survey

Steering Committee

--
   [Losee.jpg] Joseph Losee, MD
   Advisor

PRIDE Resources

     * Discussion Board</text>
</page> §
<page="en-6">
<text>
   Everyday Power >gt; Inspirational Quotes

120 Ego Quotes Examining Pride, Confidence and Purpose

   Norbert Juma
   By Norbert Juma | Updated November 14, 2023
--
   the beginner’s mindset, focusing on doing your best, and choosing
   purpose over passion.

   Instead of letting early pride lead you astray, remind yourself how
   much work is left to be done, not how much you have done.

   It’s okay to take pride in achievements or position but remember that
   nobody gets to the top alone.

   To help you stay balanced, below is our collection of inspirational,
--
   See the rest of our quote database for even more inspirational ideas
   and thoughts.

Ego quotes examining pride, confidence and purpose

   According to a study published in the Journal of Personality and Social
   Psychology, individuals with high narcissism and self-centeredness may
--

   5. “The ego is the false self-born out of fear and defensiveness.” ―
   John O’Donohue
   Ego quotes examining pride, confidence and purpose

   You will also enjoy our article on be listening quotes.

--
   come to a true acceptance and appreciation of yourself.” ― Rasheed
   Ogunlaru

   29. “Why do you give way to your ego and pride. Where does it stand in
   the ocean of time.” ― Naveen Rajeev
   Ego Quotes About Pride

   30. “The Spirit is as much a jealous lover as the ego. Both guard their
   path with an uncompromising passion but for very different reasons.” ―
--
   46. “The ego hurts you like this: you become obsessed with the one
   person who does not love you. blind to the rest who do.” ― Warsan Shire

   47. “Don’t allow the pride, ego, and insecurities of others stunt your
   growth.” ― Yvonne Pierre
   Ego Quotes About Growth

--

   74. “Be capable of negating your ego.” — Robert Greene

   75. “Receive without pride, let go without attachment.” — Marcus
   Aurelius

   76. “Drop ego and listen. Empathize.” — Naval Ravikant

   77. “Pride must die in you, or nothing of heaven can live in you.” —
   Andrew Murray

   78. “Ego is about who’s right. Truth is about what’s right.” — Mike
--
   90. “Most arguments are not really disagreements but are rather little
   ego battles and misunderstandings.” ― Stephen Covey

Ego Quotes To Swallow Your Pride

   91. “Ego is just like a dust in the eyes… without clearing the dust you
   can’t see anything clearly… so clear the ego and see the world.” ― Sukh</text>
</page> §
<page="en-7">
<text>     * Poems
     * Positive Quotes

30 Pride Quotes, Inspirational Words of Wisdom

   March 13, 2023March 13, 2023 by WowAdmin

30 Pride Quotes

   Answer this honestly. Are you proud or prideful? There’s a fine line
   between the two. Pride is an important part of who we are, it’s our
   self esteem for a job well done and it inspires us to push forward and
   do our best. But if your ego takes over, that power is lost because
   you’re not tapping into the humility we should all keep close. Enjoy
   these Pride Quotes; I hope they help you foster healthy self-esteem and
   build your confidence!
   Pride is the trap of ego pleasure. Kevin Everett FitzMaurice, Ego
    1. Pride is the trap of ego pleasure.
       Kevin Everett FitzMaurice, Ego
       Ego Quotes Ezoic
    2. Swallow your pride, open your heart, and show more humility.
       Mimi Gabriel, The Heart to Forgive: Reclaiming Our Relationship
       After Infidelity
       Humble Quotes
    3. Pride loves and is flattered by praise. Humility avoids and is
       embarrassed by such.
       Humility and Pride, Hilarion Dorostolski
       Love Yourself
    4. Honor yourself and your accomplishments. Take pride in them.
       Dr. Cathy Lomartra, Awaken Your Magic
       Inspirational Quotes
       Persons in a position of power, which dictates making decisions
       affecting the lives of people, very easily succumb to the sin of
       pride. Kenneth A. Penman, Pride Or Praise?
    5. Persons in a position of power, which dictates making decisions
       affecting the lives of people, very easily succumb to the sin of
       pride.
       Kenneth A. Penman, Pride Or Praise?
       Decision Quotes
    6. After all, without a sense of pride, one might not achieve or
       continue to strive for excellence in one’s field of endeavor.
       Michael Eric Dyson, Pride
       Achievement Ezoic
    7. All experiences that build up our pride obligate us to the builder.
       Roy Masters, Surviving the Comfort Zone
       Experience Quotes
    8. Taking pride in the direction of progress benefits perseverance
       most.
       David DeSteno, Emotional Success
       Perseverance
    9. Fetch your ladder of pride and fix your gaze on your goal, then you
       will be able to overcome any obstacle.
       Markus Jotzo, The Formula for Infinite Pride: Do Things You Cannot
       Do
       Goal Quotes
       Pride breaks a person from the inside out. Patrick T Gorman, The
       Unbroken Home
   10. Pride breaks a person from the inside out.
       Patrick T Gorman, The Unbroken Home
       Quotes To Live By Ezoic
   11. Pride is the most deeply entrenched sin—the one to which we’re the
       most blind. It’s the basis of all deception.
       Holman Bible Staff, NKJV Daily Devotional Bible for Women,
       Purple/Blue LeatherTouch
       Ignorance
   12. Detect pride in yourself so that it will not bring about your fall.
       Thomas J. Sica, Growing Wise Day by Day
       Learning
   13. When you can get to a space where you feel proud for the journey
--
       Sarah Prout, Dear Universe
       Journey
   14. Help me lay my ego at your feet and step away from a heart filled
       with pride. Let me only boast of you. Amen.
       Karen Moore, Wellspring
       Prayer
       By taking pride in yourself means that you take pride in your
       relationship.
   15. By taking pride in yourself means that you take pride in your
       relationship.
       Harib Shaqsy
       Relationship
   16. Measureless pride needs to be extinguished sooner than a raging
       ﬁre.
       Heraclitus, The Other Side of Language
       Deep Ezoic
   17. You will learn that unless you swallow your pride, you will likely
       harbor bitterness.
       Killian Muli, The Unpredictability of Life
       Jealousy
   18. If you need to forgive, drop your pride and do it. If you need
       forgiveness, drop your pride and ask for it.
       Matt Stephen, In His Service: Educators Serving God and His
       Children
       Forgiveness
   19. Pride is so busy trying to get everyone else to see it that it can
       never get the time to see itself. Since pride is the most superior
       part of everything, the only one it will honor or respect is
       itself.
       Doreen A. Martin, Wisdom Speaks
       Respect
       Only when we can see pride for what it is around us and within us,
       will we be able to tell truth from fiction in most things. Michal
       H. Hall, The Absurdity of Pride and the Peace of Humility
   20. Only when we can see pride for what it is around us and within us,
       will we be able to tell truth from fiction in most things.
       Michal H. Hall, The Absurdity of Pride and the Peace of Humility
       Truth Ezoic
   21. I feel like living because I take pride in our planet, because I
       cannot quench my cosmic thirst.
       Unknown Author, Bulgaria
       Life is Beautiful
   22. At the heart of this vulnerability lies the willingness of people
       to abandon their pride and their fear—to sacrifice their ego for
       the collective good of the team.
       Andrew Kerr, The Humility Imperative
       Fear
   23. …take pride in what you are doing and finish it from start to
       finish. You are going to find that people will notice it and you
       can take some pride in your work.
       Mike C. Adams, Self Discipline
       Work
   24. The pride in who we are is not a part of our past, it defines our
       present and our future.
       Queen Elizabeth II
       Future
       In general, pride is at the bottom of all great mistakes. John
       Ruskin
   25. In general, pride is at the bottom of all great mistakes.
       John Ruskin
       John Ruskin Quotes
   26. Being a humble man does not mean you are without pride in yourself
       or respect, nor without condence.
       Charles D. Dangerfield, Filling a Void
       Respect Quotes Ezoic
   27. Acknowledge your pride and admit your role in the problem. Humility
       always forces me to the positive side.
       Doug Fields, Your First Two Years in Youth Ministry
       Acknowledgement
   28. Champions take pride In things little or a lot. They’re faithful
       and true With what they got.
       Ron Hostetler, Becoming Champions for Life
       Champion
   29. There are ways to keep going with pride and dignity even when hope
       cannot rationally be measured.
       Robert Wuthnow, Be Very Afraid
       Self Motivation
   30. THE PRIDE also hears how you use your words to relate to others
       around you and how you speak about situations and people.
       Sundae Witkowski, Taking Back the Pride
       Acts of Kindness

         More Quotes to Inspire</text>
</page> §
<page="en-8">
<text>
   [INS: :INS]

   What does the Bible say about Pride_________________________? Find Out

   A ‣ B ‣ C ‣ D ‣ E ‣ F ‣ G ‣ H ‣ I ‣ J ‣ K ‣ L ‣ M ‣ N ‣ O ‣ P ‣ Q ‣ R ‣
   S ‣ T ‣ U ‣ V ‣ W ‣ Y ‣ Z

100 Bible Verses about Pride

Proverbs 11:2 ESV / 14,865 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   When pride comes, then comes disgrace, but with the humble is wisdom.

Proverbs 29:23 ESV / 14,708 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   One's pride will bring him low, but he who is lowly in spirit will
   obtain honor.

Proverbs 8:13 ESV / 14,185 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   The fear of the Lord is hatred of evil. Pride and arrogance and the way
   of evil and perverted speech I hate.

Proverbs 16:18 ESV / 12,821 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.

James 4:6 ESV / 11,004 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

--
1 John 2:16 ESV / 9,562 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   For all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires
   of the eyes and pride of life—is not from the Father but is from the
   world.

Proverbs 18:12 ESV / 9,129 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful
--

Psalm 10:4 ESV / 7,070 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   In the pride of his face the wicked does not seek him; all his thoughts
   are, “There is no God.”

Galatians 6:3 ESV / 6,790 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful
--

   Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the King of heaven,
   for all his works are right and his ways are just; and those who walk
   in pride he is able to humble.

1 Peter 5:5 ESV / 5,383 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

--
   And he said, “What comes out of a person is what defiles him. For from
   within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts, sexual immorality,
   theft, murder, adultery, coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality,
   envy, slander, pride, foolishness. All these evil things come from
   within, and they defile a person.”

Romans 12:3 ESV / 5,296 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful
--
Proverbs 21:24 ESV / 5,064 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   “Scoffer” is the name of the arrogant, haughty man who acts with
   arrogant pride.

Galatians 6:4 ESV / 4,976 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

--
Psalm 59:12 ESV / 4,927 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   For the sin of their mouths, the words of their lips, let them be
   trapped in their pride. For the cursing and lies that they utter,

1 Corinthians 1:28-29 ESV / 4,910 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

--

Isaiah 23:9 ESV / 4,427 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   The Lord of hosts has purposed it, to defile the pompous pride of all
   glory, to dishonor all the honored of the earth.

Obadiah 1:3 ESV / 4,235 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   The pride of your heart has deceived you, you who live in the clefts of
   the rock, in your lofty dwelling, who say in your heart, “Who will
   bring me down to the ground?”

--

Leviticus 26:19 ESV / 3,956 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   And I will break the pride of your power, and I will make your heavens
   like iron and your earth like bronze.

Isaiah 2:11 ESV / 3,831 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   The haughty looks of man shall be brought low, and the lofty pride of
   men shall be humbled, and the Lord alone will be exalted in that day.

Proverbs 15:25 ESV / 3,621 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful
--

   I will punish the world for its evil, and the wicked for their
   iniquity; I will put an end to the pomp of the arrogant, and lay low
   the pompous pride of the ruthless.

Psalm 101:5 ESV / 3,513 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

--
Psalm 10:3-4 ESV / 3,423 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   For the wicked boasts of the desires of his soul, and the one greedy
   for gain curses and renounces the Lord. In the pride of his face the
   wicked does not seek him; all his thoughts are, “There is no God.”

1 Corinthians 10:31 ESV / 3,416 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful
--

   Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the
   world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the
   world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride of
   life—is not from the Father but is from the world. And the world is
   passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God
   abides forever.
--

Psalm 73:6 ESV / 3,003 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   Therefore pride is their necklace; violence covers them as a garment.

1 Timothy 3:6 ESV / 2,993 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

--

Isaiah 16:6 ESV / 2,885 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   We have heard of the pride of Moab— how proud he is!— of his arrogance,
   his pride, and his insolence; in his idle boasting he is not right.

1 Corinthians 10:12 ESV / 2,877 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

--
Psalm 31:23 ESV / 2,835 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   Love the Lord, all you his saints! The Lord preserves the faithful but
   abundantly repays the one who acts in pride.

2 Chronicles 32:25-26 ESV / 2,806 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   But Hezekiah did not make return according to the benefit done to him,
   for his heart was proud. Therefore wrath came upon him and Judah and
   Jerusalem. But Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride of his heart,
   both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the wrath of the Lord
   did not come upon them in the days of Hezekiah.

Jeremiah 49:16 ESV / 2,763 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   The horror you inspire has deceived you, and the pride of your heart,
   you who live in the clefts of the rock, who hold the height of the
   hill. Though you make your nest as high as the eagle's, I will bring
   you down from there, declares the Lord.
--
Job 41:34 ESV / 2,369 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   He sees everything that is high; he is king over all the sons of
   pride.”

2 Corinthians 10:18 ESV / 2,367 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

--

Proverbs 16:18-19 ESV / 1,980 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall. It
   is better to be of a lowly spirit with the poor than to divide the
   spoil with the proud.

--
1 John 2:16-17 ESV / 1,766 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   For all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires
   of the eyes and pride of life—is not from the Father but is from the
   world. And the world is passing away along with its desires, but
   whoever does the will of God abides forever.

--
Isaiah 4:2 ESV / 1,724 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful

   In that day the branch of the Lord shall be beautiful and glorious, and
   the fruit of the land shall be the pride and honor of the survivors of
   Israel.

1 Chronicles 16:11 ESV / 1,679 helpful votes (1) Helpful (-1) Not Helpful</text>
</page> §
<page="en-9">
<text>
   Share

   Pride Won’t Let You Learn

The way pride is ingrained in those who exhibit this sheer arrogance is that
it’s convoluted with a hint of ignorance and a dash of recklessness. In a
less complicated sentence, proud people are ignorant of the consequences of
their speech or actions.
--
   stop spending time preparing and improving because we’re sure that we
   know.

   Pride comes as a result of knowledge and confidence. You know what you
   know and no one can take away that knowledge. That knowledge boosts
   your confidence level and you’re ready to take on the world but pride
   wants you to take a piss on the world regardless of the beauty other
   people are trying to create on its canvas.

   For you to learn a thing, you’d have to come to terms with the fact
   that you haven’t experienced it. You might have heard and read about
   it, but you haven’t had a real-time meet with it and pride won’t let
   you think this.

     Pride confuses ignorance as just a lack of knowledge issue. But real
     intelligence knows ignorance is also inadequate information or
     knowledge. Ignorance is knowledge that isn’t yielding appropriate
     results.

   If there’s anything you know about, have read about or are studying
   that isn’t generating your envisioned consequence, there’s an ignorance
   gap and pride might not let you accept this sheer and cold truth.

   So, you keep feeding yourself with more updates and latest information
   thinking that staying in touch would somehow create that learning
--
   one-sided versions of their lives. And because we live in a connected
   world, people can’t mind their businesses.

Don’t let pride shut the door against the life you really want. Call for
help, heck! Scream for it. Get on your knees, put on your dungarees, get your
hands dirty and get to work. Call up someone to teach you if you can. Pay for
that workshop to learn that skill that you know is relevant for where you’re
--
Speak to someone about the challenges you’re facing.

   In the words of Maria Forleo, everything is figureoutable, but the
   caveat is for only those who are willing to set pride aside and learn.

   Pride can only get you as far as it can but not as far as you want.
   You’re struggling because there’s something or a bunch of stuff you’re
   yet to learn and that’s okay.</text>
</page> §
</lang>
<lang="es">
<page="es-1">
<text>   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)

Orgullo y Prejuicio

   212 Pins
    12w
--
   Love Movie
   ☆DULCE☆
   ☆DULCE☆
   Orgullo y Prejuicio
   Jane Austen Bath, Pride &amp; Prejudice Movie, Most Ardently, Moving To The
   Uk, Film Posters Minimalist, Film Poster Design, Somewhere In Time
   Jane Austen Bath
--
   Incandescently Happy
   Kiera Knightly
   Jane Austen Novels
   Orgullo y prejuicio Jane Eyre, Regency Fashion, Geeks, Cover Art, Pride
   And Prejudice And Zombies, Elizabeth Gaskell
   Jane Eyre
   Regency Fashion
--
   Cover Art
   Pride And Prejudice And Zombies
   Elizabeth Gaskell
   Orgullo y prejuicio
   undefined Bennet Sisters, Fanart, Drawing For Kids, Children Drawing
   Bennet Sisters
   Fanart
--
   Pride and Prejudice!
   Pembertea
   Pembertea
   Orgullo y Prejuicio
   Elizabeth Bennet, Pride And Prejudice Characters
   Elizabeth Bennet
   Pride And Prejudice Characters
--
   and Prejudice
   Jing Zhang
   Jing Zhang
   Orgullo y Prejuicio
   Mr. Único Cinema Tv, Films Cinema, I Love Cinema, Jane Austen, Sr.
   Darcy, Pride And Prejudice Review, I Smile, Make Me Smile
   Cinema Tv
--
   Mr. Único
   Sisy Daros
   Sisy Daros
   Orgullo y Prejuicio
   s e a b o i s Keira Christina Knightley, Becoming Jane, Damien
   Chazelle, Regency Gown, Regency Era
   Keira Christina Knightley
--
   Pinterest:тσяι∂αιѕуяσѕє 🌹
   тσяι∂αιѕуяσѕє 🌹
   тσяι∂αιѕуяσѕє 🌹
   Orgullo y Prejuicio
   “Didn’t tell them to do this final kiss in a lingering way actually.
   They just kind of did it. I guess it felt right.” (JOE
   WRIGHT,DIRECTOR). pride and prejudice. wedded bliss of lizzie and darcy</text>
</page> §
<page="es-10">
<text>                                                                 Editorial


   Orgullo y Prejuicio


   Pride and Prejudice
--
   La novela describe poco más de un año de la vida de la familia Bennet y
   un grupo de dinerados jóvenes en el Londres de fines de siglo 18.
   Considerada una obra de "educación personal", Austen ilustra con
   maestría, como tanto el orgullo como el prejuicio pueden causar malos
   entendidos y alejarnos de las personas que nos interesan. Sus
   protagonistas Elizabeth y Darcy, deberán madurar y aprender de sus
   errores para poder estar juntos, superando por un lado el orgullo de
   clase de Darcy y por otro los prejuicios de Elizabeth hacia él.

   Tanto el orgullo como el prejuicio se pueden encontrar, del mismo modo,
   rondando como fantasmas los espacios de la formación profesional.
   Revisemos algunos datos; actualmente en Chile, cerca del 40% de los
   alumnos que entra a estudiar psicología, no lo hace por una directa
--
   ¿Cómo respondemos a esta evolución del cuerpo de estudiantes
   universitarios? Un dato interesante es que en la actualidad, 7 de cada
   10 universitarios constituyen la primera generación en conocer estos
   centros^1. ¿De que forma podemos inculcarles el orgullo por lo que
   hacemos?

   Vivimos en un mundo en donde la necesidad de destacarse es imperiosa y
--
   psicoterapéutica?, La pregunta no es menor dada la amplia diversidad de
   intervenciones y precios disponibles en el mercado.

   ¿Será el orgullo en lo que hace el terapeuta, aquello que alimenta el
   prejuicio que se encuentra a la base de los resultados obtenidos? Un
   estudio señala que los psicólogos clínicos, creen o confían más en su
   propia experiencia y métodos particulares de tratamiento, que en los
--
   expectativas de quienes la practican: psicólogos, docentes de
   psicología y de los usuarios: pacientes/clientes y publico en general.
   Ya que si bien puede sustentarse muchas veces en ciertos datos
   objetivos, todavía persisten demasiados rituales, prejuicios y orgullos
   que impiden avanzar.

   ¡Extrapolemos la lección de Jane Austen a nuestro terreno!, el
   desarrollo de la psicología basada en pruebas o evidencias y todo lo
   que esto nos pueda entregar, será saboteado si no vencemos nuestros
   propios prejuicios y el orgullo quizás generado por lo "mucho" que
   creemos conocer del "objeto de la mente^6".</text>
</page> §
<page="es-11">
<text>   Ve cine realmente grandioso en streaming.
   (BUTTON) Prueba 7 Días Gratis

   ORGULLO SIN PREJUICIOS: CINE LGBTQ+
   (BUTTON)
   Ver tráiler</text>
</page> §
<page="es-12">
<text>   REFRESH(900 sec):
   file://localhost/home/melisse/PPE/PPE1_projet/TeamOrgueil/aspirations/e
   s-12.html
   #Orgullodenervion SEVILLA Últimas noticias SEVILLA

   IFRAME: //www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-NV52QC

--
   Hazte premium
   ABC Sevilla: últimas noticias y actualidad de Sevilla y Andalucía

Orgullo de nervión

     * Portada
     * Noticias
--

Ancelotti, sobre Ramos, tras su encontronazo con un aficionado: «Es valiente»

   Orgullo de Nervión

   El técnico italiano volvió a alabar al jugador del Sevilla: «Es un
   profesional serio»
--

Muzambo, cerca de cerrar su llegada al Sevilla

   Orgullo de Nervión

   El joven centrocampista belga llegaría ya traspasado al cuadro
   nervionense
--

El Sevilla regresa a los entrenamientos tras una nueva derrota

   Orgullo de Nervión

   El equipo dirigido por Quique Sánchez Flores llevó a cabo una sesión de
   recuperación y ya prepara también el duelo ante el Racing de Ferrol
--
Fichajes Sevilla FC, en directo: noticias, última hora y altas y bajas del
mercado de invierno en enero de 2024

   Orgullo de Nervión

   Agoumé vuelve a acercarse al Sevilla

--

   Álvaro Galván

   Así te contó Orgullodenervion.com el choque correspondiente a la 19ª
   jornada liguera, el encuentro con los mejores comentarios de nuestros
   redactores y el pospartido con todas las declaraciones de los
   protagonistas
--

Sevilla - Athletic, las estadísticas del partido

   Orgullo de Nervión

   Todos los números y datos del encuentro de la jornada 19 de LaLiga EA
   Sports
--

Miles de aficionados en el clásico entrenamiento navideño del Sevilla

   Orgullo de Nervión

   Entradas El Circo Encantado - Sevilla -48% 23€ 11.9€
   Entradas El Circo Encantado - Sevilla
--

El Marsella pone contra las cuerdas al Sevilla por Agoumé

   Orgullo de Nervión
   El Marsella pone contra las cuerdas al Sevilla por Agoumé

   Desde Francia apuntan a que el club francés tendría ya muy cerca el
--
   El análisis de Palop del Sevilla - Athletic: «La imagen deja muchas
   dudas»

   El exguardameta sevillista comparte en ABC y Orgullo de Nervión su
   visión del primer encuentro del año para el cuadro sevillista

   04/01/2024 07:20h.
--

Reencuentro del Sevilla con Sánchez Martínez

   Orgullo de Nervión
   Reencuentro del Sevilla con Sánchez Martínez

   El colegiado del Comité Murciano, designado para el partido ante el
--

En-Nesyri y Rakitic, ausencias en la sesión

   Orgullo de Nervión
   En-Nesyri y Rakitic, ausencias en la sesión

   El delantero ya está con la selección de Marruecos para la Copa de
--

En-Nesyri parte hacia la Copa de África y no jugará ante el Athletic

   Orgullo de Nervión
   En-Nesyri parte hacia la Copa de África y no jugará ante el Athletic

   El atacante marroquí viajará de forma inminente para unirse a la
   concentración de su selección para preparar el torneo continental

   Lo más leído en Orgullo de nervión
    1. 1Sergio Ramos se calienta con un aficionado en plena entrevista:
       «Respeta a la gente y al escudo y ... Sergio Ramos se calienta con
       un aficionado en plena entrevista: «Respeta a la gente y al escudo</text>
</page> §
<page="es-13">
<text>                         200 años en femenino - Inicio

     * Jane Austen
     * Orgullo y Prejuicio
     * De dama a dama
     * Otras pioneras
     * Igualdad, familia y trabajo

Orgullo para él, prejuicio para ella

   por ROSA REGÀS

--
   todas las situaciones y ambientes, de todos sus personajes, de sus
   corazones y de sus vidas

   El 28 de enero se cumplen dos siglos de la publicación de 'Orgullo y
   prejuicio' (en inglés, 'Pride and Prejudice'), una de las más famosas
   novelas de Jane Austen que tuvo muy buenas críticas y gozó de bastante
   popularidad aunque el prestigio tuvo que esperar hasta mucho más allá
--

   «Para mí Jane Austen está entre la media docena de los mejores
   escritores ingleses, los otros son Shakespeare, Milton, Swift, Keats y
   Dickens». Y 'Orgullo y prejuicio' es seguramente su mejor novela, una
   de las primeras comedias románticas que, como las demás de la autora,
   tienen como soporte la descripción de lo que era para la clase media y
   alta la vida en el campo, con el trasfondo de las anheladas visitas a
--

   Dos jóvenes, Elizabeth Bennet y Fitzwilliam Darcy, las figuras
   principales de la novela, se nos presentan definidos cada uno de ellos
   por uno de los dos sustantivos del título de la novela: orgullo para
   él, prejuicio para ella. Y en una serie de acontecimientos sociales, de
   malentendidos, de personajes que a su vez podrían ser protagonistas de
   otras novelas, como de hecho lo son, van adquiriendo la comprensión y
--
   intensas adentrándolo en desconocidos mundos de sentimientos y
   pasiones, de curiosidades en los entresijos del alma.

   En 'Orgullo y prejuicio' admiramos su capacidad de transmitirnos las
   más nimias reacciones que se producen en sus protagonistas, del mismo
   modo que nos hace entrar de lleno en los paisajes, las costumbres y la
   emotividad misma de la historia que nos narra. Notable ingenio,
--
   y sensibilidad', que se publicó con pseudónimo, como toda su obra, en
   1811.

   A los dos años sin siquiera firmarla publicó 'Orgullo y prejuicio', que
   tuvo excelentes críticas y en 1814 apareció 'Mansfield Park' y 'Emma'
   en 1816. 'Persuasión' y 'Northanger Abbey' fueron publicadas después de
   que una enfermedad acabara con su vida, el 18 de julio de 1817. Es
--
   finales del siglo XVIII y principios del XIX que difícilmente podía
   conocer en profundidad, dado que el régimen de libertad de una mujer en
   aquellos tiempos era  demasiado estricto como para conocer los
   sentimientos de tantos hombres y mujeres como aparecen en 'Orgullo y
   prejuicio' y en sus demás novelas. Jane Austen, como hacen los buenos
   escritores, no describía esos ambientes sino que los creaba. Y ésta era
   su realidad literaria que poco tiene que ver con la realidad tangible,
--

   En cualquier caso, Jane Austen nos muestra con extraordinario talento
   que la literatura tiene su propia realidad y que para que cumpla su
   objetivo, sólo se le pide que sea coherente y creíble. 'Orgullo y
   prejuicio' es un bello ejemplo de esta excelsa forma de contarnos una
   historia.

--
   regas

     * Una heroína moderna por Marta Rivera de la Cruz
     * Orgullo para él, prejuicio para ella por Rosa Regàs
     * Austenfilia por María Dueñas

   Ilustraciones de C. E. Brock de 1895.</text>
</page> §
<page="es-14">
<text>     * SOCIES
          + ¿TE APUNTAS?

XIII Edición Juegos del Orgullo de Gmadrid Sports

   Resérvate el fin de semana del 24 al 26 de junio para disfrutar de la
   XIII edición de nuestros #JDO22, este año con más deportes y
--
   Madrid Titanes, este año además tendremos Rugby.

Disponibles las inscripciones para los primeros torneos de los Juegos del
Orgullo de GMadrid Sports

🏐 Inscripciones Torneos de Voleibol y Voley Playa

--

🧹 Inscripciones Torneo Quidditch

     * Primer Torneo de quidditch de los Juegos del Orgullo. Enlace para
       inscribirse.

Más torneos y sus inscripciones muy pronto...</text>
</page> §
<page="es-15">
<text>
   Nov 16

ORGULLO RURAL

     * Por SierraAlbarracín en BLOG, LOCALIDADES

   Desde el CRA hoy hemos querido ser partícipes del Día Mundial del
   Orgullo Rural. ¿Qué es este día? en esta entrada os lo contamos, leed
   muy atentos.

   El día 16 de noviembre se celebra el Día Mundial del Orgullo Rural para
   reivindicar y defender los derechos de las personas que deciden vivir
   en los pueblos.

   Una idea que nació de la Plataforma Ciudadana Rural Minera, de la
   provincia de Teruel, como una manera de mostrar las bondades y aspectos
   positivos de vivir en el mundo rural y para ello crearon una bandera
   propia del Orgullo Rural, reivindicativa de lo que supone vivir en
   áreas despobladas.

   La bandera del Orgullo Rural: teñida por todos los colores de la
   naturaleza: el azul del cielo, el amarillo del sol, el marrón de la
   tierra, el verde de los ríos y la vegetación y el rojo de los
   minerales. Además, para darle universalidad, estamparon siete estrellas
--
   muy sencillo:

   Primero hemos hecho una rutina de pensamiento en la que hemos escrito
   en papeles de colores lo que sabíamos sobre orgullo rural y lo que nos
   gustaría aprender sobre ello. Después hemos visto un vídeo en el que
   nos han explicado brevemente en qué consiste, cómo surgió, quién lo
   impulsó….
--
   rutina de pensamiento, muchas de ellas muy interesantes. Los pequeños
   de Guadalaviar han tenido una conversación muy clara sobre el tema que
   podemos leer en el siguiente documento:
   Reflexiones-sobre-el-dia-del-orgullo-rural-1Descarga

   Tenemos claro que nos gusta vivir donde vivimos y que somos felices
   aquí. Nos gustan nuestros pueblos rurales y nuestras escuelas rurales.
   Tenemos ¡¡ORGULLO RURAL!!

   Aquí os dejamos un vídeo que resume la actividad.

     * 16denoviembre, CRA, crasierradealbarracin, escuelarural,
       mundorural, orgullorural

SierraAlbarracín</text>
</page> §
<page="es-16">
<text>
   Unirse ahora Inicia sesión

   Cómo dejar el orgullo de lado: 5 pasos para empezar a vivir más en paz.
   Por Daniel Colombo

Cómo dejar el orgullo de lado: 5 pasos para empezar a vivir más en paz. Por
Daniel Colombo

   (BUTTON)
--
   No hay texto alternativo para esta imagen

   Si quieres conquistar un mayor bienestar emocional, es posible que el
   orgullo sea una de las barreras que se estén interponiendo para que tu
   vida sea más pacífica, empática y, sobre todo, con equilibrio interno
   de tus emociones.

   “Orgullo” es una palabra que tiene doble significado. Dependiendo del
   contexto, podemos sentirnos orgullosos de los logros, las conquistas
   propias o ajenas, o de algún otro tipo de manifestación que nos produce
   agrado y una profunda identificación.

   Del otro lado, el orgullo es uno de los sentimientos más difíciles de
   asimilar por las personas, porque como sabemos, desde allí al rencor
   hay un solo paso, y muchas veces las personas prefieren quedarse
   encerradas en sus propias buenas razones, sin tener la capacidad de
   reconciliación ni de perdón.

   Cuando el sentimiento del orgullo se interpone, quien está hablando en
   ese momento en toda su potencia es tu ego, que quiere tener
   protagonismo y salirse con la suya.

   Como no podemos eliminarlo, una forma en que se manifiesta es a través
   del orgullo herido, ese sentimiento que hace que la persona se vuelva
   altanera, a la defensiva y hasta agresiva con aquella otra que, piensa,
   es motivo de su padecer.

   El orgullo también está ligado a manifestaciones como la soberbia y el
   desprecio, especialmente cuando alguien se siente superior por el
   motivo que sea.

   Psicología del orgullo

   Para los estudiosos, referirse al orgullo es hablar de una emoción que
   está muy identificada, en su origen, con valores sociales que se
   aprendieron en la primera infancia, entre que nacemos y los 7 años
   aproximadamente.
--
   desprecia, somete, agravia o se tienen posturas prejuiciosas y al
   denostar a cierta gente.

   Asimismo, otro comportamiento social muy asociado con el orgullo es la
   vanidad, cuando alguien piensa de sí que es, literalmente, el ombligo
   del mundo, que es superior, y por eso el entorno debe estar a sus pies,
   o resaltando positivamente cualquier actitud que tome, ya sea positiva
   o negativa.

   La persona orgullosa tiene una mente poco flexible

   Una de las características de la gente orgullosa por naturaleza es la
   mente cerrada. Al no tener la flexibilidad suficiente en su modelo
   mental, su mente subconsciente -que es donde están alojadas las
   experiencias de emociones y sentimientos- recrean una y otra vez
--
   que no coincidan con la suya, y, además, son tajantes en sus juicios
   lacerantes que salen de su pensamiento, de su boca y de sus acciones.

   La conclusión es que una persona que se comporta en forma orgullosa la
   mayor parte del tiempo tenderá a quedarse sola, encerrada en su propio
   micromundo, y sin posibilidad de compartir y experimentar otras
   visiones del mundo. A lo sumo se animará a relacionarse con quienes
   considere de menor categoría y que conformarán una especie de corte de
   obsecuentes.

   5 tips para dejar el orgullo

   Si realmente deseas evolucionar, crecer y conectarte mejor con las
   demás personas, puedes empezar a dejar el orgullo de lado siguiendo
   estos cinco tips:

   Practica el autoconocimiento: empieza a tener humildad
--

   Con la ayuda de un terapeuta profesional, e incluso complementarlo con
   coaching, podrás dar los pasos concretos en encontrar la raíz del
   orgullo, y reemplazarlo por otros sentimientos más nobles de acuerdo
   con tus nuevos principios, si, realmente, quieres transformarte.

   Por cierto, esto implica revisar profundamente tu escala de valores.
--

   Asume que no somos perfectos

   La persona orgullosa no se anima a observar los aspectos negativos en
   sí, mientras que puede llegar a ser muy cruel al señalarlos en las
   demás.

--

   Reconoce tu valor interno: no necesitas de la soberbia

   Un enorme miedo que suelen agigantar aún más las personas orgullosas es
   que si dejan esa forma de ser de lado, no podrán sentirse valiosas.

   La verdad es que la soberbia, la pedantería y cualquier otra forma que
--
   sentimientos de superioridad, como habrías hecho en tu versión
   anterior.

   Debes saber que cada persona, incluso las orgullosas y arrogantes,
   tienen un enorme tesoro interno; solo que lo esconden detrás de ciertos
   comportamientos limitantes.

--
   Supera tus inseguridades

   Otro factor relevante es que, por lo general, hay una cuota de
   inseguridad interna en la persona orgullosa. Surge de la confusión
   interna que le genera el no saber cómo responderán los demás ante sus
   actos.

--
   Aprende a pedir perdón

   Este acto de sincero arrepentimiento quizás sea uno de los más
   difíciles de lograr para las personalidades orgullosas, porque sienten
   que bajan de “categoría”.

   El pedir perdón, y perdonarte, son de las habilidades estratégicas que
--
   somos perfectos en este plano físico. Ni siquiera tú.

   Una vez que transites por estos cinco pasos habrás empezado a dejar de
   lado tus actitudes orgullosas, conquistarás más libertad interior,
   estarás con menos ataduras a las creencias limitantes que tenías, y
   podrás conectarte contigo en primer lugar, y luego con las demás
   personas, en forma más equilibrada.</text>
</page> §
<page="es-17">
<text>   #Rivas con Orgullo » Feed Rivas con Orgullo » Feed de los comentarios
   alternate alternate alternate

     * Inicio
--

   Conócenos

   Si quieres ponerte en contacto con Rivas con Orgullo, puedes hacerlo en
   iu_equo@rivasciudad.es</text>
</page> §
<page="es-18">
<text>
   DONAR

No Dejes que el Orgullo Sea tu Guía

   por Rick Warren — Septiembre 21, 2021
   Print Friendly, PDF &amp; Email
--
   a los demás como superiores a ustedes mismos”. Filipenses 2:3 (NVI)

   Cada conflicto que se vive en una relación tiene el elemento del
   orgullo en el medio. Tenemos un problema de “yo”. “Yo” quiero lo que
   “yo” quiero y “yo” lo quiero ahora, y eso causa todo tipo de problemas.
   En cualquier relación, nunca dejes que el orgullo sea tu guía, porque
   el orgullo es la raíz de cualquier otro pecado.

   La Biblia dice en Filipenses 2:3: “No hagan nada por egoísmo o vanidad;
   más bien, con humildad consideren a los demás como superiores a ustedes
   mismos” (NVI). Pablo dice que hay dos tipos de orgullo que crean
   conflictos. Uno de ellos es la ambición egoísta y el otro es la
   vanidad. La ambición egoísta dice: “Todo gira en torno a mí” y la
   vanidad significa: “Siempre tengo la razón”.
--
   especialmente en las redes sociales. Es una gran tentación hacer que
   uno se vea mejor en Internet de lo que es.

   En Gálatas, Pablo enumera unos 17 efectos de vivir con orgullo. Dice
   que cuando vivimos una vida egocéntrica, se manifiesta de todo tipo de
   maneras. Comienza diciendo cosas como que la autosatisfacción se
   manifiesta en la inmoralidad sexual y en las fiestas desenfrenadas y en
--

   Si quieres ser feliz en tus relaciones, tienes que tener armonía. Y si
   vas a tener armonía, tienes que tener humildad. Nunca dejes que el
   orgullo sea tu guía.

Síguenos en nuestra cuenta de Instagram: @esperanzadiariadelpastorrick

--
       relación para servirte a ti mismo o a los demás?
     * ¿Cuáles son las formas prácticas de mantener la humildad en una
       relación?
     * ¿Cómo has visto que el orgullo destruye las relaciones? ¿Qué puedes
       hacer hoy para ayudar a restaurar esas conexiones?

Si todavía no has confiado en Jesús y no te has comprometido a seguirlo, ¿por</text>
</page> §
<page="es-19">
<text>
Substantive

       el orgullo   der Stolz  kein Pl.
       el orgullo   der Hochmut  kein Pl.
       el orgullo   die Aufgeblasenheit  Pl.
       el Orgullo   - Día Internacional del Orgullo LGTB   Pride
       el Orgullo   - día internacional del Orgullo LGTB   der Christopher
   Street Day [Abk.: CSD]
       orgullo desmesurado   die Hybris  kein Pl.
       orgullo nacional   der Nationalstolz  kein Pl.
       orgullo nobiliario   der Adelsstolz  kein Pl.
       orgullo de casta   der Standesdünkel  kein Pl.
       Día del Orgullo   - Día Internacional del Orgullo LGTB   der
   Christopher Street Day [Abk.: CSD]
       Día Internacional del Orgullo LGTB   der Christopher Street Day
   [Abk.: CSD]

Verben

       henchirse de orgullo   mit Stolz erfüllt werden

Phrasen

       El orgullo precede a la caída.      Hochmut kommt vor dem Fall.
       una buena dosis de orgullo [fig.]   eine ganze Menge Stolz
   Werbung

Forumsdiskussionen, die den Suchbegriff enthalten

   el Orgullo - Pride Letzter Beitrag:  15 Jan. 21, 19:27
   https://www.fundeu.es/recomendacion/world-pri...1. Día Internacional
   del Orgullo LGTBLos nom… 1 Antworten
   que ahí de tu orgullo Letzter Beitrag:  14 Dez. 07, 13:11
   "que ahí de tu orgullo que habíamos quedado" Wie heißt das übersetzt?
   Mich irrtiert das hal… 2 Antworten
   el Orgullo - der Christopher Street Day [Abk.: CSD] Letzter Beitrag:
   15 Jan. 21, 21:28
   https://www.duden.de/rechtschreibung/CSDChristopher Street
   Dayhttps://www.duden.de/rechtschr… 2 Antworten</text>
</page> §
<page="es-2">
<text>   #Ediciones la Llave » Feed Ediciones la Llave » Feed de los comentarios
   Ediciones la Llave » Comentario Psicología de los eneatipos: Orgullo
   del feed alternate alternate alternate

   fbpx
--
   Búsqueda de productos ____________________
     * Inicio
     * Claudio Naranjo
     * Psicología de los eneatipos: Orgullo

Psicología de los eneatipos: Orgullo

   25.00€

--

   ISBN: 9788416145461

   Orgullo es el libro sobre el eneatipo Dos. Cada uno de los nueve libros
   que componen esta obra presenta una extensa descripción de cada
   eneatipo: subtipos Conservación, Sexual y Social, equivalencias
   académicas, rasgos más destacados, biografías, personajes célebres,
   problemas en el amor, así como un amplio conjunto de recomendaciones
   para el desarrollo de la conciencia.
   Psicología de los eneatipos: Orgullo cantidad 1___
   (27493) Añadir al carrito
   Categoría: Claudio Naranjo, Eneagrama, Psicología
   Etiquetas: Claudio Naranjo, Eneagrama
--

   Autor: Claudio Naranjo

   El orgullo se consideraba como el más difícil de los pecados en las
   antiguas tradiciones espirituales. En el eneagrama de los tipos
   psicológicos, este antiguo concepto podría traducirse como el punto
   ciego por el que un ego endiosado elimina de la conciencia cualquier
   sentimiento incómodo: un mecanismo de defensa que Freud definió como
   represión. Así, el carácter orgulloso muestra una dificultad para
   identificar su carencia o tristeza, a la vez que pretende ofrecerlo
   todo y no necesitar nada. En su afán por ser el centro, perpetúa su rol
   narcisista de aliviar el dolor ajeno, que es la forma que encontró en
--
   convertirse en el mecanismo que reprime sus sentimientos de dolor y
   humillación por haber sido utilizado.

   Orgullo, quinto volumen de la obra Psicología de los eneatipos,
   describe al eneatipo Dos y sus subtipos como un conjunto de caracteres
   que llenan su vacío con esta autoimagen grandiosa, unida a una
   compulsión seductora y una necesidad de sentirse amados, adorados e
--
Valoraciones

   No hay valoraciones aún.
   Sé el primero en valorar “Psicología de los eneatipos: Orgullo”
   Cancelar la respuesta

   Tu dirección de correo electrónico no será publicada. Los campos</text>
</page> §
<page="es-20">
<text>     * Centroamérica Cuenta
     * BBC Extra

El lado más atrevido de Jane Austen, la autora de "Orgullo y Prejuicio" (y
cómo contrasta con la sociedad recatada que describía)

     * Fiona Macdonald
--

   Aunque asesinatos, violaciones y borrachas sean hechos de la vida real
   muy alejados del mundo de las hermanas Bennet y Mister Darcy de
   "Orgullo y Prejuicio", pero antes de que ellos existieran fueron esos
   temas oscuros los que cautivaron la imaginación de su creadora, Jane
   Austen.

--
   hermanos mayores, James y Henry, fundaron y escribieron un semanario
   humorístico, The Loiterer ('Los holgazanes') mientras estudiaban en el
   St John's College de Oxford".
   Escena de Orgullo y Prejuicio en producción de la BBC
   Pie de foto,

   "Es una verdad universalmente aceptada que todo soltero en posesión de
--
   más negativos".

   La madre de Austen, Cassandra, no consideró "Mansfield Park" tan buena
   como "Orgullo y Prejuicio", 1813. Y una amiga de la familia, Augusta
   Brownstone, la prefirió a otros libros de Austen, aunque imaginó que la
   razón podría ser su falta de gusto.

--

   Los primeros borradores de libros publicados posteriormente como Sense
   and Sensibility ("Sensatez y sentimientos", 1811), Pride and Prejudice
   ("Orgullo y prejuicio", 1813) y Northanger Abbey ("La abadía de
   Northanger", 1817) fueron escritos poco después del último de los
   cuadernos adolescentes.

   "No es muy fantasioso encontrar trazas de las fuertes heroínas de esos
   tempranos experimentos en la energía vulgar de Elizabeth Bennet
   ('cruzando campo tras campo a paso rápido, saltando montículos y
   charcos', (Orgullo y Prejuicio, cap. 7) y la peligrosamente
   indisciplinada imaginación de Emma Woodhouse".

   Lee la historia original en inglés en BBC Culture</text>
</page> §
<page="es-24">
<text>
   [INS: :INS] [INS: :INS]

5 consejos para que nuestro orgullo no domine nuestras vidas

Humildad

--

Cómo tratar (con éxito) con personas difíciles

   Las personas orgullosas tienden a acumular sentimientos negativos como
   la rabia.

   Las personas orgullosas tienden a acumular sentimientos negativos como
   la rabia.
   Freepik

   Alexandra Roiba
   31/05/2023 08:00

   La línea que separa el orgullo de la soberbia tiende a ser
   excesivamente fina, por lo que, a menudo, puede caerse en conductas que
   no resultan beneficiosas ni para uno mismo ni para su relaciones
   sociales a causa de ello. A menudo se reconoce a las personas humildes
   como el rasgo de la personalidad más apropiado que alguien debe poseer.
   No obstante, lo cierto es que ser orgullo es necesario, pero nunca en
   exceso.

   El psicólogo Miguel Valenzuela define al orgullo como un “sentimiento
   autoconsciente, da sentido al “yo”, y tiene que ver con atribuciones y
   evaluaciones de uno mismo con respecto a los otros”. Este, construido
   de forma positiva, es necesario para formar la autoestima y la
   confianza, afirma el especialista. Pero si se trata de un orgullo
   negativo puede resultar siendo autodestructivo y atrayendo la
   infelicidad, a causa de convertirse en soberbia y vanidad. Por lo que
   hay que evitarlo.
   [INS: :INS] [INS: :INS]

Consejos para dejar de ser una persona demasiado orgullosa

   Un orgullo positivo está basado en una parte de humildad, lo que
   permite a las personas mantenerse flexibles y receptivas para aprender
   de aquello que se desconoce, explica Valenzuela. Lidiar con un orgullo
   excesivo es posible y para ello tan solo hay que asimilar y aplicar
   ciertos consejos como punto de partida.

¿Cómo dejar de ser tan orgulloso?

   1

Reconocer el orgullo negativo. Muchas veces, una persona orgullosa no es
consciente de que lo es. O sí, pero no quiere reconocerlo. El primer paso
para adoptar un orgullo positivo, es decir, con parte de humildad, consiste
en identificar esta toxicidad, asumirla y comprometerse a cambiarla para que
no siga siendo perjudicial.

   2

Evitar estar a la defensiva. Las personas orgullosas tienden a ofenderse y
molestarse mucho más fácilmente. Pese a que ellos puedan ver este
comportamiento como una muestra de su fortaleza, la realidad es justamente lo
opuesto. Los resultados de esta forma de actuar serán el agotamiento mental y
--

   3

No todo es blanco o negro. Ser orgulloso viene de la mano con una necesidad
intransigente a tener la razón siempre, frecuentemente dejando de lado todo
tipo de lógica u objetividad. Sin embargo, el resto de personas no siempre
compartirán las mismas opiniones. Y es algo positivo para poder conocer
--
   4

Dejar de lado la soberbia. El sentimiento de competencia de las personas
demasiado orgullosas a veces es tal que les hace sentirse por encima del
resto. Superiores a los demás. Por lo que acaban siendo inflexibles y jueces.
Una actitud que supone el caldo de cultivo perfecto para sentimientos
negativos, como el rencor o la hostilidad.
--
   5

Buscar ayuda si se necesita. Una de las principales cargas de las personas
orgullosas es su incapacidad para pedir ayuda, ya que piensan que esto es un
signo de debilidad. Pero es importante para la salud mental de las personas
que sepan pedir ayuda a su entorno si las circunstancias lo requieren.

--
   [INS: :INS]
   {"allowComment":"allowed","articleId":"article-9003574","url":"https:\/
   \/www.lavanguardia.com\/vivo\/psicologia-salud-mental\/20230531\/900357
   4\/5-consejos-nuestro-orgullo-domine-vidas-pvlv.html","livefyre-url":"a
   rticle-9003574"}

   Cargando siguiente contenido...</text>
</page> §
<page="es-26">
<text>     *
     *

   ORGULLO Y PREJUICIO

ORGULLO Y PREJUICIO

          JANE AUSTEN

--

       $ 449.00
       Comprar
     * ORGULLO Y PREJUICIO

                ORGULLO Y PREJUICIO
                JANE AUSTEN
                Jane Austin es la primera gran escritora en lengua
                inglesa. Se la ha colocado al lado de George Eliot, Henry
--
                narrativa de Inglaterra. Una buena biblioteca en la casa
                paterna y una intensa afición a la lectura desde la
                infancia perfilaron en ella, desde muy joven, una clara
                intención de llegar a ser novelista. " Orgullo y pre...
                En stock

       $ 399.00</text>
</page> §
<page="es-27">
<text>   política (en su caso) u ocupación principal, o la que esté o estuvo
   relacionada con el tema abordado

El orgullo y la democracia

Si bien la democracia como ideal político es mayoritariamente valorada de
modo positivo, su manifestación concreta provoca desafección
--

   Una de las preguntas que busca dar cuenta de la evaluación que tienen
   las y los encuestados sobre la democracia en Chile es: “¿Hasta qué
   punto se siente usted orgulloso del sistema político de Chile?”.
   Resulta interesante hacer un par de comentarios al respecto. Según la
   primera acepción del diccionario de la RAE, el orgullo consiste en un
   “sentimiento de satisfacción por los logros, capacidades o méritos
   propios o por algo en lo que una persona se siente concernida”. Parece
   ser, entonces, un afecto favorable y propicio, que podríamos vincular,
   tanto en el plano individual como colectivo, con la noción
   contemporánea de autoestima. Sin embargo, nuestro sentido común y el
   uso cotidiano del término nos lleva a notar que el orgullo implica
   también una disposición afectiva que suele presentar una cierta
   ambivalencia, si se lo entiende desde una perspectiva normativa o
   moral.
--
   por supuesto, la política. ¿Cuántas de las polémicas en este ámbito, en
   las que se invierte tiempo valioso y energías que debieran aplicarse a
   la solución de los problemas comunes, no están atravesadas por esta
   dimensión del orgullo como desconocimiento o minusvaloración del otro?
   En la conmemoración de 50 años desde el quiebre político más importante
   de la historia contemporánea de Chile, pensar en sus causas, en el
   horror posterior y en la pervivencia de actitudes enmarcadas en esta
--
   imperativo.

   Un 52% de quienes respondieron la encuesta se sienten “nada de
   orgullosos” o muy poco orgullosos con el funcionamiento del sistema
   político en Chile. Esta valoración afectiva debiera ser una temprana
   campanada de alerta. Si bien la democracia como ideal político es
   mayoritariamente valorada de modo positivo, su manifestación concreta
--
   niveles de la experiencia humana. En lo que respecta a las
   posibilidades de fortalecer una verdadera ciudadanía democrática, un
   par de académicos norteamericanos (Ted Brader y Erin Cikanek) han
   tipificado al orgullo como una emoción política con un valor productivo
   para la sociedad como colectivo, en la medida que mantiene y refuerza
   las expectativas y estándares con los que se vive la vida en común. Si
   se toma en cuenta esta perspectiva, vale la pena considerar al orgullo
   como un indicador de salud democrática. La vinculación afectiva de
   satisfacción que supone estar orgulloso del sistema político aparece
   como deseable en la medida que puede considerársela como parte de una
   actitud positiva frente a la vida en común. Por ende, si existe un 35%
   de personas que derechamente está “nada de orgulloso” del sistema
   político, ese hecho debiera mover a reflexión. Al desagregar a este
   grupo abiertamente insatisfecho mediante categorías como edad, estrato
   socioeconómico y posición política, se constata que el perfil
--
   por el cientista político Cristóbal Rovira, como el Partido
   Republicano.

   Precisamente ha sido el orgullo, principalmente asociado a símbolos
   patrios, tradiciones y alguna nostalgia de orden social jerárquico, lo
   que ha constituido buena parte del capital político de grupos que, por
   el contrario, parecen descreer afectivamente del sistema político en
--
   por parte de la bancada mayoritaria del Partido Republicano de un
   párrafo en una moción de la propuesta constitucional elevando a rango
   de la ley suprema del Estado a la práctica del rodeo y al baile de la
   cueca simboliza esa apropiación singular de la noción de orgullo.

   En suma, gracias a los datos de Chile Dice se puede relevar un nuevo
   ángulo de análisis para un desafío que debe afrontar la democracia
   chilena hoy y en el futuro: disputar, en el plano de los afectos, el
   orgullo, y desplazar su eje hacia un sentido colectivo, abierto,
   propositivo, y encajonar a los discursos que lo rescatan simplemente
   desde el prisma de la exclusión y la superioridad.</text>
</page> §
<page="es-28">
<text>   /Type /Font /Subtype /Type1 /BaseFont /LXZTVU+MinionPro-Regular
   /FontDescriptor 236 0 R /Widths 237 0 R /FirstChar 32 /LastChar 32
   /Encoding /MacRomanEncoding >gt;>gt; endobj 238 0 obj (Fichas de actividades:
   Orgullo, solucionada) endobj 239 0 obj (Mac OS X 10.6.8 Quartz
   PDFContext) endobj 240 0 obj (Palabras Aladas, S. L.) endobj 241 0 obj
   () endobj 242 0 obj (Microsoft Word) endobj 243 0 obj
   (D:20150701152843Z00'00') endobj 244 0 obj () endobj 245 0 obj [ () ]</text>
</page> §
<page="es-29">
<text>
    1. Inicio
    2. Catálogo
    3. Orgullo y prejuicio y zombis

   Orgullo y prejuicio y zombis
   Leer avance del libro

   Compartir

Orgullo y prejuicio y zombis

   Seth Grahame-Smith

   Sinopsis
   "Es una verdad universalmente reconocida que un zombi que tiene cerebro
   necesita más cerebros". Así empieza "Orgullo y prejuicio y zombis", una
   versión ampliada de la clásica novela de Jane Austen, sólo que con
   escalofriantes escenas de zombis que siembran el terror y devoran a
   seres humanos. Cuando esa misteriosa plaga llega a la apacible
--
   evitar que la llegada del altivo y arrogante señor Darcy la distraiga
   de su empeño. …
   "Es una verdad universalmente reconocida que un zombi que tiene cerebro
   necesita más cerebros". Así empieza "Orgullo y prejuicio y zombis", una
   versión ampliada de la clásica novela de Jane Austen, sólo que con
   escalofriantes escenas de zombis que siembran el terror y devoran a
   seres humanos. Cuando esa misteriosa plaga llega a la apacible
--
   Elizabeth Bennett tendrá que acabar con la amenaza y, al mismo tiempo,
   evitar que la llegada del altivo y arrogante señor Darcy la distraiga
   de su empeño.
   Reescritura en clave de solfa de un clásico fundamental, "Orgullo y
   prejuicio y zombis" es una comedia deliciosa, aderezada con civilizadas
   peleas entre los dos jóvenes enamorados y otras más violentas en el
   ensangrentado campo de batalla donde Elizabeth libra una guerra sin
   cuartel contra legiones de zombis que se alimentan de seres humanos.
   "Orgullo y prejuicio y zombis", con sus desengaños amorosos, sus
   duelos, su canibalismo y sus cadáveres putrefactos, transforma una obra
   maestra de la literatura mundial en algo que realmente desearemos leer.
   Leer másLeer menos
--

Más libros del mismo autor

   Orgullo y prejuicio y zombis thumbnail
   Orgullo y prejuicio y zombis
   Jane Austen, Seth Grahame-Smith
   Orgullo y prejuicio y zombis thumbnail
   Orgullo y prejuicio y zombis
   Jane Austen, Seth Grahame-Smith

Títulos similares</text>
</page> §
<page="es-3">
<text>   « All Events
     * This event has passed.

28 de junio | Día del orgullo LGBTIQA+

28/06/2022 @ 8:00 am – 5:00 pm</text>
</page> §
<page="es-30">
<text>     *
     * Zaloguj się

   orgullo_____________
   ES
   PL
   h»p (BUTTON)
--
   Trenera słownictwa PONS i innych funkcji.
   hiszpańsko » polski

Tłumaczenia dla hasła „orgullo“ w hiszpańsko » polski słowniku (Przełącz na
polsko » hiszpański)

orgullo [orˈɣuʎo] RZ. r.m.

     *

1. orgullo (satisfacción):

          +

          orgullo
          duma r.ż.

          +

          +

          orgullo por/de algo
          duma z czegoś

          +

2. orgullo (soberbia):

          +

          orgullo
          zarozumiałość r.ż.

          +

Przykładowe zdania ze słowem orgullo

          +

          orgullo por/de algo
          duma z czegoś

          +
--
     * órgano
     * orgasmo
     * orgía
     * orgullo
     * orgulloso
     * orientación
     * oriental
     * orientar
     * orientativo

Przetłumacz "orgullo" w innych językach

     * angielski
     * chiński</text>
</page> §
<page="es-31">
<text>   main product photo
   Skip to the beginning of the images gallery

Orgullo y prejuicio

   Sea el primero en opinar sobre este producto
   $115.00
--
   mujeres célebres e influyentes en la literatura universal, aseguró que
   la sabiduría es mejor que el ingenio. Y en ésta, su segunda novela, la
   cual escribió a los veinte años, demuestra el agudo conocimiento que
   tenía ya acerca de las virtudes y los defectos humanos. Orgullo y
   prejuicio es una historia de naturaleza romántica, profundamente
   sensible, en la que sus protagonistas son las hermanas Bennet, quienes
   se encuentran en edad de contraer matrimonio, con sus enredos,</text>
</page> §
<page="es-32">
<text>   #Corregidora Orgullo Qro. | Transparencia » Feed Corregidora Orgullo
   Qro. | Transparencia » Feed de los comentarios alternate alternate

   Corregidora Orgullo Qro. | Transparencia
     * Inicio
     * Art 66 y 67
     * Portal Fiscal
--
     * Comisión de Mejora Regulatoria
     * Ley general de archivos

   Corregidora Orgullo Qro. | Transparencia
   (BUTTON)
     * Inicio
     * Art 66 y 67
--

   infoqro

   Corregidora Orgullo Qro. | Transparencia

DIRECCIÓN

--
     * Infoqro
     * Aregional

   Corregidora Orgullo de Querétaro Mapa del Sitio

   Regreso al portal de Corregidora
   (BUTTON)</text>
</page> §
<page="es-33">
<text>   main product photo
   Saltar al comienzo de la galería de imágenes

Orgullo Y Prejuicio (Td)

   Editorial: Alma
   AUSTEN, JANE
--

   IFRAME:
   https://www.facebook.com/plugins/share_button.php?href=https://www.anta
   rtica.cl/orgullo-y-prejuicio-td-9788415618782.html&amp;layout=button&amp;size=s
   mall&amp;width=89&amp;height=20&amp;appId
   Facebook

--
   Reivindicada vehementemente por Rudyard Kipling y Edward Said, la
   elegancia estilística de su prosa, su ironía y, sobre todo, su
   perspicacia para el retrato social convierten sus obras en una
   referencia ineludible de la literatura del siglo XIX. Orgullo y
   prejuicio, su novela más conocida, narra cómo Elizabeth Bennet y
   Fitzwilliam Darcy se enfrentan a sus prejuicios movidos por el amor
   que, contra pronóstico, surge entre ellos. “Es una verdad reconocida
--
   Reseñas 6
   Escribir Su propia reseña

   Estás revisando:Orgullo Y Prejuicio (Td)

   Su valoración</text>
</page> §
<page="es-34">
<text>
Este año podrás disfrutar del Village y los conciertos el 14 y 15 de julio.

La Manifestación del Orgullo LGTBIQ+ será el sábado 15 de julio.

¡No te pierdas nuestro Village!</text>
</page> §
<page="es-35">
<text>   #next USIL Life » Feed USIL Life » Feed de los comentarios USIL Life »
   Categoría Orgullo USIL del feed alternate

   (BUTTON)
   USIL Life USIL Life
   MENUMENU
     * Orgullo USIL
     * Clubes USIL
          + ACI USIL
          + Club de Emprendedores
--

   ____________________ Enviar

Orgullo USIL

   Destacamos los logros de nuestros alumnos y egresados que se
   desenvuelven con éxito en sus diferentes ámbitos, tanto académicos como
   personales.  Tú también puedes ser parte de nuestro Orgullo USIL.

   Inicio / Orgullo USIL

   DAAD

--
   Organización Ideas, el cual es el repositorio más importante de papers
   del mundo en el campo de la Economía. Además, realiza […]

   Orgullo USILTop 25%
   columbia

Egresado USIL es admitido en Harvard y Columbia
--
Etiquetas

   #SIMOEA #TodosSomosUSIL Cape USIL Ciencias de la Salud Ciencias
   Empresariales Derecho HTG Humanidades Ingeniería ModoUSIL Orgullo USIL
   Top 25%

Momentos USIL</text>
</page> §
<page="es-36">
<text>
     * Descuentos

Orgullo de Pueblo: la carroza para amar sin fronteras vuelve a la carretera

La carroza que en 2022 recorrió miles de kilómetros para visibilizar el
'sexilio' vuelve a más pueblos este verano para seguir sensibilizando donde
más se necesita.

   Cartel de la caravana Orgullo de Pueblo Cartel de la caravana Orgullo
   de Pueblo / D.R.
   Redacción Cuore
   -
--
   viéndose forzadas a abandonar sus localidades de origen para refugiarse
   en las grandes ciudades por el mero hecho de amar diferente. Para
   visibilizar esta situación y que nadie tenga que hacer las maletas por
   su orientación sexual, la Gira Orgullo de Pueblo de J&amp;B vuelve a la
   carretera. Tras el éxito del verano 2022, la icónica carroza recorrerá
   miles de kilómetros para celebrar la diversidad y el amor sin etiquetas
   en la España Rural.

   De esta manera, J&amp;B refuerza su compromiso con el colectivo LGTBIQ+ los
   365 días del año. Tras la primera edición de orgullo de pueblo y la
   exitosa campaña de navidades, 'She', la marca de whisky sigue
   reivindicando que nadie se quede fuera de la celebración.

   Para este “volumen II” de Orgullo de Pueblo, la carroza, que hasta
   ahora era conocida como Sol en homenaje a José Pérez Ocaña, será
   rebautizada como 'La Estrella', de este modo se rinde tributo a
   Fernando 'La Estrella', que nos dejaba en febrero de 2023 en su
--

   Artista sorprendente e irrepetible, referente de la diversidad… Y
   siempre estrella, Fernando fue uno de los protagonistas destacados de
   la primera edición de Orgullo de Pueblo.
   Cartel de la caravana Orgullo de Pueblo

   / D.R.

--
   momento tuve claro que 'El Amor' tenía que ser el himno de esta segunda
   edición. Y es que, ya sea heterosexual, homosexual, transgénero,
   intercultural, interracial… El amor es amor y nosotros vamos a
   celebrarlo por todo lo alto, en este Orgullo de pueblo de J&amp;B",
   declaraba la Terremoto de Alcorcón.

Paradas imprescindibles de este verano de 'Orgullo de Pueblo'

   La gira comenzó el 10 de junio en Utrera (Sevilla) localidad natal de
   Fernando 'Estrella', donde vecinos y amigos rendían tributo al genial
--
   pueblos de España, haciendo una parada en el Pride de Madrid donde fue
   una de las carrozas más esperadas.

   Y como cada pueblo de España debería poder celebrar el Orgullo, J&amp;B
   vuelve a dar la posibilidad a todos lo que lo deseen de inscribir su
   pueblo en su web para convertirse en la última parada de la gira.

--
   Entretenimiento
   Estrella
   Gira
   Orgullo
   Pueblo
   Terremoto
   Vuelve</text>
</page> §
<page="es-38">
<text>
Proverbios 16:18-19 NTV

   El orgullo va delante de la destrucción, y la arrogancia antes de la
   caída. Es mejor vivir humildemente con los pobres que compartir el
   botín con los orgullosos.
   (BUTTON)
   NTV: Nueva Traducción Viviente
   (BUTTON)
--

Verse Images for Proverbios 16:18-19

   Proverbios 16:18-19 - El orgullo va delante de la destrucción, y la
   arrogancia antes de la caída. Es mejor vivir humildemente con los
   pobres que compartir el botín con los orgullosos.
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   Comparar todas las versiones: Proverbios 16:18-19</text>
</page> §
<page="es-39">
<text>               o Lujuria
               o Envidia
               o Gula
               o Orgullo
          + Quimeras
               o Heinkel
               o Martel
--
               o Lujuria
               o Envidia
               o Gula
               o Orgullo
          + Quimeras
               o Heinkel
               o Martel
--
     * Personajes de FMAB
     * Personajes de Central

Orgullo

   Inicia sesión para editar
     * Ver historial
--
   Este artículo trata del personaje del manga y anime Brotherhood. Para
          un vistazo general del personaje, véase Selim Bradley

   Para el Orgullo del anime de 2003, véase King Bradley

Orgullo

   Orgullo

Alias

   Orgullo, el Arrogante
   Selim Bradley

Creador
--
Manga

   Capítulo 31 (como Selim)
   Capítulo 39 (como Orgullo)

Seiyū

   Yuko Sanpei

   Orgullo (プライド, Puraido^?) es el primer homúnculo en ser creado por
   Padre. Al igual que Ira y Pereza, el papel de Orgullo cambia
   significativamente en el anime de 2003.
   [ ]

--
   tenga cualquier tipo de habilidad especial, sea un alquimista o un
   Homúnculo, haciéndola suya, adquiriendo también de pasada todas sus
   debilidades. Ejemplo de ello es que al haberse comido a Gluttony
   Orgullo adquirió su agudo sentido del olfato y su voracidad al comer.
   Es posible que al haberse comido al homúnculo, Pride también haya
   adquirido la habilidad de abrir la falsa puerta de la verdad que
   Gluttony escondía en su estómago. Al haber asimilado a Kimblee, es
--
   El doctor Marcoh y Yoki llegan para ayudar en la lucha, asistiendo
   médicamente a Heinkel y auxiliando a Al, Heinkel finalmente consigue
   dejar a Kimblee al borde de la muerte para luego huir junto con Al,
   Marcoh y Yoki hacia Central. Al ver a Kimblee agonizante, Orgullo con
   sarcásmo le comenta a Kimblee que el nuevo color de su traje le queda
   muy bien, para luego decirle que una vez forme parte de su cuerpo, verá
   al mundo como siempre lo quiso ver. Orgullo aprovecha la ocasión para
   asimilar al ex-alquimista estatal, aumentando de ese modo sus poderes y
   regenerar su cuerpo gracias a que Kimblee poseía una tercera piedra
   filosofal al tiempo que les advierte a sus enemigos que van sin saberlo
--
   de la gente era un placer para sus oidos, aumentando su poder e
   influencia en su ser. Kimblee justifica su presencia para echarle en
   cara al homunculo que, cuando la situación pinta mal para él, es capaz
   de dejar de lado su orgullo (la razón de su existencia) y aprovecharse
   de formas de vida más debiles que la suya, como es el caso de intentar
   poseer a Ed, dejando en claro su patetismo.
   Pride derrotado Pride derrotado
--
   contra Padre.
   Tumblr mdpx0b2Piu1qfwzeuo1 r1 500 Tumblr mdpx0b2Piu1qfwzeuo1 r1 500

   Edward Derrotando a Orgullo
   Pride 27918368 Pride 27918368

   Verdadera forma de Pride.</text>
</page> §
<page="es-4">
<text>     *
     *

Descarga las Bases del Concurso El Orgullo de Ser Gendarmería 2023

   Bases El Orgullo de Ser Gendarmería 2023
   Necesita ayuda con algo ? Contáctanos
   Logo Gendarmeria
   © 2021 Gendarmería de Chile. el Orgullo de Ser Gendarme.
   Terms of Use / Privacy Policy</text>
</page> §
<page="es-40">
<text>          + Download the App Download the App
          + Advertise Advertise

Sentence examples of "orgullo" in Spanish

   [Spanish________]
   <lt;>gt;
   [English]
   orgullo_____________
   Translations: all17 pride14 other translations3
   show all
   ____________________ [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)_____
   Las palabras hirieron su orgullo. The words hurt his pride.
   Tomamos orgullo en nuestra fuerza. We took pride in our strength.
   Su bella esposa es su orgullo. His beautiful wife is his pride.
   Su orgullo no le permitió pedir ayuda. His pride didn't allow him to
   ask for help.
   Ella es el orgullo de su clase. She is the pride of her class.
   Mi orgullo me impidió pedirle prestado dinero. My pride prevented me
   from borrowing money from him.
   Su orgullo no se quebraría por tales insultos. His pride would not
   brook such insults.
   Le costaba ocultar su orgullo por su éxito. It was difficult for him to
   hide his pride in his success.
   ¿Qué puedes perder pidiéndole salir? ¿Un poco de orgullo quizá? What do
   you have to lose by asking her out on a date? A little pride maybe?
   ¡Eh! Puede que no tenga dinero, pero todavía tengo mi orgullo. Hey, I
   may have no money, but I still have my pride.
   Tal era su orgullo que él no pudo ponerse a ignorar el insulto. Such
   was his pride that he could not bring himself to ignore the insult.
   La vanidad y el orgullo son cosas diferentes, aunque usualmente son
   palabras usadas como sinónimos. Vanity and pride are different things,
   though the words are often used synonymously.
   Una persona puede ser orgullosa sin ser vanidosa. El orgullo está más
   relacionado con nuestra opinión de nosotros mismos, la vanidad con lo
   que querríamos que los otros pensaran de nosotros. A person may be
   proud without being vain. Pride relates more to our opinion of
   ourselves, vanity to what we would have others think of us.
   Cuando él declaró abiertamente que se iba a casar con Pablo, a su
   abuela casi le dio un infarto y a su tía se le salieron los ojos de las
   órbitas; sin embargo, su hermana pequeña sonrió con orgullo. When he
   openly declared he would marry Pablo, he almost gave his grandmother a
   heart attack and made his aunt's eyes burst out of their sockets;
   however, his little sister beamed with pride.
   Tengo orgullo de mi lindo gatito. I am proud of my pretty cat.
   Ella tiene orgullo de su hija. She is proud of her daughter.
   Le da orgullo que su padre fue un gran científico. He is proud that his
   father was a great scientist.
   Examples of word usage in different contexts are provided solely for
   linguistic purposes, i.e. to study word usage in a sentence in one</text>
</page> §
<page="es-41">
<text>   options
   Join Goodreads

Orgullo Y Prejuicio Quotes

   Quotes tagged as "orgullo-y-prejuicio" Showing 1-23 of 23
   Jane Austen
   “Cuanto más conozco el mundo, más me irrita, y todos los días confirmo
   mi creencia en la inconstancia del carácter humano y en la poca que me
   inspiran las apariencias de mérito o talento.”
   ― Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice
   tags: orgullo-y-prejuicio
   53 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
--
   mi creencia en la inconsistencia del carácter humano y en lo poco que
   se puede uno fiar de las apariencias de bondad o inteligencia".”
   ― Jane Austen
   tags: orgullo-y-prejuicio
   51 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
--
   quienes nunca han visto. No tengo valor para ello ni puedo adaptarme al
   carácter de los demás con la facilidad que otros lo hacen.”
   ― Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice
   tags: jane-austen, mr-darcy, orgullo-y-prejuicio
   30 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
--
   respetar a tu compañero en la vida. No sabes bien el riesgo que
   corres.”
   ― Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice
   tags: bendición, español, jane-austen, mr-bennet, orgullo-y-prejuicio,
   señor-bennet
   22 likes
   Like
--
   uno de tus padres. Tu madre no quiere volver a verte si no te casas con
   Collins, y yo no quiero volver a verte si te casas con él.”
   ― Jane Austen
   tags: orgullo-y-prejuicio
   18 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
   “Recuerde sólo en el pasado aquello que le sea grato.”
   ― Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice
   tags: jane-austen, lizzy-bennet, orgullo-y-prejuicio
   12 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
--
   al tono de su conversación, ni fingirme interesado por sus asuntos,
   como veo hacer tan a menudo.”
   ― Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice
   tags: español, jane-austen, mr-darcy, orgullo-y-prejuicio, señor-darcy
   11 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
--
   esperemos decir algo que deje boquiabierto a quien escucha y pase a la
   posteridad con el brillo de un proverbio" - Lizzy Bennet.”
   ― Jane Austen
   tags: lizzy-bennet, orgullo-y-prejuicio
   7 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
--
   consigo, al producirse, toda la satisfacción esperada.”
   ― Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice
   tags: español, expectativa, expectativas, jane-austen,
   orgullo-y-prejuicio
   4 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
--
   de hablar. ¡Nadie imagina mi sufrimiento! Pero siempre ha sido igual.
   Si uno no se queja, nadie le compadece.”
   ― Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice
   tags: español, jane-austen, mrs-bennet, orgullo-y-prejuicio
   3 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
--
   disgusto.”
   ― Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice
   tags: español, expectativa, expectativas, jane-austen,
   orgullo-y-prejuicio
   3 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
--
   suerte, con el tiempo pueda encontrar a otro señor Collins.”
   ― Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice
   tags: elizabeth-bennet, español, jane-austen, mr-collins,
   orgullo-y-prejuicio, señor-collins
   3 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
   “Piensa solo en el pasado cuando su recuerdo sea placentero.”
   ― Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice
   tags: jane-austen, orgullo-y-prejuicio, pasado
   3 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
--
   —En mi opinión, la poesía ha sido siempre el alimento del amor —dijo
   Darcy.”
   ― Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice
   tags: orgullo-y-prejuicio
   3 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
   “La arrogancia y el orgullo son cosas muy distintas, aunque a menudo se
   tomen como sinónimos. Una persona puede ser orgullosa sin ser
   arrogante. El orgullo se refiere más a nuestra opinión sobre nosotros
   mismos; la arrogancia, a lo que deseamos que los demás piensen de
   nosotros.”
   ― Jane Austen, Pride &amp; Prejudice
   tags: orgullo-y-prejuicio
   2 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
--
   propios deseos, y jamás comprendió tan claramente que podía haberle
   amado como en aquel momento, cuando todo amor ya era imposible.”
   ― Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice
   tags: orgullo-y-prejuicio
   2 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
--
   modifican cad vez que se intenta influir sobre ellos. Quizá pueda
   decirse que tiendo al resentimiento. Cuando pierdo mi buena opinión
   sobre alguien o algo, perdido está para siempre”
   ― Jane Austen, Orgullo y Prejuicio
   tags: joven-adulto, mr-darcy, orgullo-y-prejuicio
   2 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
--
   sentimiento ha de ser dirigido por la razón; y en mi opinión, el
   esfuerzo debe ser proporcional a lo que se pretende.”
   ― Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice
   tags: orgullo-y-prejuicio
   1 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
   “Estoy segura de que no reconoces ahora en mí ninguna bondad positiva,
   pero nadie piensa en eso cuando está enamorado.”
   ― Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice
   tags: orgullo-y-prejuicio
   1 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
--
   fuerte de por sí. Pero sí es sólo una inclinación ligera, sin ninguna
   base, un buen soneto la acabará matando de hambre.”
   ― Jane Austen
   tags: orgullo-y-prejuicio
   1 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
   “No tenía carácter para hacer frente a aquella especie de competencia
   en que nos hallábamos y a la preferencia que su padre me dispensaba a
   menudo" - Wickham. Orgullo y Prejuicio.”
   ― Jane Austen
   tags: orgullo-y-prejuicio, wickham
   0 likes
   Like
   Santiago Posteguillo
   “Y así, en 1813, dieciséis años después de haber sido rechazada por los
   editores Cadell, Orgullo y prejuicio, una obra maestra de la
   literatura, vio la luz por fin. Y es que, ya se sabe, a veces las
   'primeras impresiones' pueden ser engañosas.”
   ― Santiago Posteguillo
   tags: frankenstain, jane-austen, literatura, orgullo-y-prejuicio
   0 likes
   Like
   Jane Austen
--
   amor, del amor al matrimonio, todo en un instante. Ya sabía que deseaba
   felicitarme.”
   ― Jane Austen
   tags: orgullo-y-prejuicio
   0 likes
   Like
   All Quotes | My Quotes | Add A Quote

Browse By Tag

   orgullo-y-prejuicio_ Search
     * Love Quotes 95k
     * Life Quotes 75k
     * Inspirational Quotes 71k</text>
</page> §
<page="es-42">
<text>
   El español y los 7 pecados capitales

Soberbia, o el orgullo de ser orgulloso

         *
          + JUAN ESLAVA GALÁN
--

   0Comentar

   Soberbia y orgullo son dos conceptos emparentados. Soberbia: altivez y
   apetito desordenado de ser preferido a otros. Orgullo: exceso de
   estimación propia, que a veces es disimulable por nacer de causas
   nobles y virtuosas.

   Todos los españoles -no sólo los de Bilbao-, somos gente orgullosa,
   tanto que consideramos nuestro orgullo más virtud que pecado y, valga
   la paradoja, nos enorgullecemos de ser orgullosos.

   Baltasar Gracián señalaba, ya en el siglo XVII, que los españoles
   estamos afectados de «todo género de presunción, desde el más noble al
--
   Hasta entonces los nobles habían basado su preeminencia en la honra,
   excelencia y virtud heredadas de su linaje, pero muchos de ellos habían
   emparentado con familias conversas, lo que los contaminaba de sangre
   judía; los pobres cifraron entonces su orgullo en que ellos no estaban
   contaminados. No tendrían honra ni linaje como los nobles pero poseían
   algo más precioso: el honor que les otorgaba la pureza de sangre. «El
   honor es patrimonio del alma y el alma sólo de Dios», que diría
--
   españoles ensoberbecidos que se tienen por políglotas sin serlo.

   Hasta hace un par de generaciones la gente de alcurnia cifraba su
   orgullo en el linaje y la gente humilde, el sencillo pueblo, en ser de
   buena casta o de buena familia con fama de honrada. Hoy, con la
   revolución social a la que asistimos, el orgullo se cifra en la
   riqueza, me temo, y el pedigrí importa menos. Como reza el dicho:
   «Presumir de hidalguía con la bolsa vacía es pura tontería».

--
   Todavía no hay comentarios. Sé el primero en dar tu opinión...
   Comentar noticia

   Volver a la noticia 'Soberbia, o el orgullo de ser orgulloso'

   [loading-icon.gif]</text>
</page> §
<page="es-43">
<text>                         200 años en femenino - Inicio

     * Jane Austen
     * Orgullo y Prejuicio
     * De dama a dama
     * Otras pioneras
     * Igualdad, familia y trabajo

Orgullo para él, prejuicio para ella

   por ROSA REGÀS

--
   todas las situaciones y ambientes, de todos sus personajes, de sus
   corazones y de sus vidas

   El 28 de enero se cumplen dos siglos de la publicación de 'Orgullo y
   prejuicio' (en inglés, 'Pride and Prejudice'), una de las más famosas
   novelas de Jane Austen que tuvo muy buenas críticas y gozó de bastante
   popularidad aunque el prestigio tuvo que esperar hasta mucho más allá
--

   «Para mí Jane Austen está entre la media docena de los mejores
   escritores ingleses, los otros son Shakespeare, Milton, Swift, Keats y
   Dickens». Y 'Orgullo y prejuicio' es seguramente su mejor novela, una
   de las primeras comedias románticas que, como las demás de la autora,
   tienen como soporte la descripción de lo que era para la clase media y
   alta la vida en el campo, con el trasfondo de las anheladas visitas a
--

   Dos jóvenes, Elizabeth Bennet y Fitzwilliam Darcy, las figuras
   principales de la novela, se nos presentan definidos cada uno de ellos
   por uno de los dos sustantivos del título de la novela: orgullo para
   él, prejuicio para ella. Y en una serie de acontecimientos sociales, de
   malentendidos, de personajes que a su vez podrían ser protagonistas de
   otras novelas, como de hecho lo son, van adquiriendo la comprensión y
--
   intensas adentrándolo en desconocidos mundos de sentimientos y
   pasiones, de curiosidades en los entresijos del alma.

   En 'Orgullo y prejuicio' admiramos su capacidad de transmitirnos las
   más nimias reacciones que se producen en sus protagonistas, del mismo
   modo que nos hace entrar de lleno en los paisajes, las costumbres y la
   emotividad misma de la historia que nos narra. Notable ingenio,
--
   y sensibilidad', que se publicó con pseudónimo, como toda su obra, en
   1811.

   A los dos años sin siquiera firmarla publicó 'Orgullo y prejuicio', que
   tuvo excelentes críticas y en 1814 apareció 'Mansfield Park' y 'Emma'
   en 1816. 'Persuasión' y 'Northanger Abbey' fueron publicadas después de
   que una enfermedad acabara con su vida, el 18 de julio de 1817. Es
--
   finales del siglo XVIII y principios del XIX que difícilmente podía
   conocer en profundidad, dado que el régimen de libertad de una mujer en
   aquellos tiempos era  demasiado estricto como para conocer los
   sentimientos de tantos hombres y mujeres como aparecen en 'Orgullo y
   prejuicio' y en sus demás novelas. Jane Austen, como hacen los buenos
   escritores, no describía esos ambientes sino que los creaba. Y ésta era
   su realidad literaria que poco tiene que ver con la realidad tangible,
--

   En cualquier caso, Jane Austen nos muestra con extraordinario talento
   que la literatura tiene su propia realidad y que para que cumpla su
   objetivo, sólo se le pide que sea coherente y creíble. 'Orgullo y
   prejuicio' es un bello ejemplo de esta excelsa forma de contarnos una
   historia.

--
   regas

     * Una heroína moderna por Marta Rivera de la Cruz
     * Orgullo para él, prejuicio para ella por Rosa Regàs
     * Austenfilia por María Dueñas

   Ilustraciones de C. E. Brock de 1895.</text>
</page> §
<page="es-44">
<text>     * SOCIES
          + ¿TE APUNTAS?

XIII Edición Juegos del Orgullo de Gmadrid Sports

   Resérvate el fin de semana del 24 al 26 de junio para disfrutar de la
   XIII edición de nuestros #JDO22, este año con más deportes y
--
   Madrid Titanes, este año además tendremos Rugby.

Disponibles las inscripciones para los primeros torneos de los Juegos del
Orgullo de GMadrid Sports

🏐 Inscripciones Torneos de Voleibol y Voley Playa

--

🧹 Inscripciones Torneo Quidditch

     * Primer Torneo de quidditch de los Juegos del Orgullo. Enlace para
       inscribirse.

Más torneos y sus inscripciones muy pronto...</text>
</page> §
<page="es-45">
<text>
   Nov 16

ORGULLO RURAL

     * Por SierraAlbarracín en BLOG, LOCALIDADES

   Desde el CRA hoy hemos querido ser partícipes del Día Mundial del
   Orgullo Rural. ¿Qué es este día? en esta entrada os lo contamos, leed
   muy atentos.

   El día 16 de noviembre se celebra el Día Mundial del Orgullo Rural para
   reivindicar y defender los derechos de las personas que deciden vivir
   en los pueblos.

   Una idea que nació de la Plataforma Ciudadana Rural Minera, de la
   provincia de Teruel, como una manera de mostrar las bondades y aspectos
   positivos de vivir en el mundo rural y para ello crearon una bandera
   propia del Orgullo Rural, reivindicativa de lo que supone vivir en
   áreas despobladas.

   La bandera del Orgullo Rural: teñida por todos los colores de la
   naturaleza: el azul del cielo, el amarillo del sol, el marrón de la
   tierra, el verde de los ríos y la vegetación y el rojo de los
   minerales. Además, para darle universalidad, estamparon siete estrellas
--
   muy sencillo:

   Primero hemos hecho una rutina de pensamiento en la que hemos escrito
   en papeles de colores lo que sabíamos sobre orgullo rural y lo que nos
   gustaría aprender sobre ello. Después hemos visto un vídeo en el que
   nos han explicado brevemente en qué consiste, cómo surgió, quién lo
   impulsó….
--
   rutina de pensamiento, muchas de ellas muy interesantes. Los pequeños
   de Guadalaviar han tenido una conversación muy clara sobre el tema que
   podemos leer en el siguiente documento:
   Reflexiones-sobre-el-dia-del-orgullo-rural-1Descarga

   Tenemos claro que nos gusta vivir donde vivimos y que somos felices
   aquí. Nos gustan nuestros pueblos rurales y nuestras escuelas rurales.
   Tenemos ¡¡ORGULLO RURAL!!

   Aquí os dejamos un vídeo que resume la actividad.

     * 16denoviembre, CRA, crasierradealbarracin, escuelarural,
       mundorural, orgullorural

SierraAlbarracín</text>
</page> §
<page="es-46">
<text>
   Unirse ahora Inicia sesión

   Cómo dejar el orgullo de lado: 5 pasos para empezar a vivir más en paz.
   Por Daniel Colombo

Cómo dejar el orgullo de lado: 5 pasos para empezar a vivir más en paz. Por
Daniel Colombo

   (BUTTON)
--
   No hay texto alternativo para esta imagen

   Si quieres conquistar un mayor bienestar emocional, es posible que el
   orgullo sea una de las barreras que se estén interponiendo para que tu
   vida sea más pacífica, empática y, sobre todo, con equilibrio interno
   de tus emociones.

   “Orgullo” es una palabra que tiene doble significado. Dependiendo del
   contexto, podemos sentirnos orgullosos de los logros, las conquistas
   propias o ajenas, o de algún otro tipo de manifestación que nos produce
   agrado y una profunda identificación.

   Del otro lado, el orgullo es uno de los sentimientos más difíciles de
   asimilar por las personas, porque como sabemos, desde allí al rencor
   hay un solo paso, y muchas veces las personas prefieren quedarse
   encerradas en sus propias buenas razones, sin tener la capacidad de
   reconciliación ni de perdón.

   Cuando el sentimiento del orgullo se interpone, quien está hablando en
   ese momento en toda su potencia es tu ego, que quiere tener
   protagonismo y salirse con la suya.

   Como no podemos eliminarlo, una forma en que se manifiesta es a través
   del orgullo herido, ese sentimiento que hace que la persona se vuelva
   altanera, a la defensiva y hasta agresiva con aquella otra que, piensa,
   es motivo de su padecer.

   El orgullo también está ligado a manifestaciones como la soberbia y el
   desprecio, especialmente cuando alguien se siente superior por el
   motivo que sea.

   Psicología del orgullo

   Para los estudiosos, referirse al orgullo es hablar de una emoción que
   está muy identificada, en su origen, con valores sociales que se
   aprendieron en la primera infancia, entre que nacemos y los 7 años
   aproximadamente.
--
   desprecia, somete, agravia o se tienen posturas prejuiciosas y al
   denostar a cierta gente.

   Asimismo, otro comportamiento social muy asociado con el orgullo es la
   vanidad, cuando alguien piensa de sí que es, literalmente, el ombligo
   del mundo, que es superior, y por eso el entorno debe estar a sus pies,
   o resaltando positivamente cualquier actitud que tome, ya sea positiva
   o negativa.

   La persona orgullosa tiene una mente poco flexible

   Una de las características de la gente orgullosa por naturaleza es la
   mente cerrada. Al no tener la flexibilidad suficiente en su modelo
   mental, su mente subconsciente -que es donde están alojadas las
   experiencias de emociones y sentimientos- recrean una y otra vez
--
   que no coincidan con la suya, y, además, son tajantes en sus juicios
   lacerantes que salen de su pensamiento, de su boca y de sus acciones.

   La conclusión es que una persona que se comporta en forma orgullosa la
   mayor parte del tiempo tenderá a quedarse sola, encerrada en su propio
   micromundo, y sin posibilidad de compartir y experimentar otras
   visiones del mundo. A lo sumo se animará a relacionarse con quienes
   considere de menor categoría y que conformarán una especie de corte de
   obsecuentes.

   5 tips para dejar el orgullo

   Si realmente deseas evolucionar, crecer y conectarte mejor con las
   demás personas, puedes empezar a dejar el orgullo de lado siguiendo
   estos cinco tips:

   Practica el autoconocimiento: empieza a tener humildad
--

   Con la ayuda de un terapeuta profesional, e incluso complementarlo con
   coaching, podrás dar los pasos concretos en encontrar la raíz del
   orgullo, y reemplazarlo por otros sentimientos más nobles de acuerdo
   con tus nuevos principios, si, realmente, quieres transformarte.

   Por cierto, esto implica revisar profundamente tu escala de valores.
--

   Asume que no somos perfectos

   La persona orgullosa no se anima a observar los aspectos negativos en
   sí, mientras que puede llegar a ser muy cruel al señalarlos en las
   demás.

--

   Reconoce tu valor interno: no necesitas de la soberbia

   Un enorme miedo que suelen agigantar aún más las personas orgullosas es
   que si dejan esa forma de ser de lado, no podrán sentirse valiosas.

   La verdad es que la soberbia, la pedantería y cualquier otra forma que
--
   sentimientos de superioridad, como habrías hecho en tu versión
   anterior.

   Debes saber que cada persona, incluso las orgullosas y arrogantes,
   tienen un enorme tesoro interno; solo que lo esconden detrás de ciertos
   comportamientos limitantes.

--
   Supera tus inseguridades

   Otro factor relevante es que, por lo general, hay una cuota de
   inseguridad interna en la persona orgullosa. Surge de la confusión
   interna que le genera el no saber cómo responderán los demás ante sus
   actos.

--
   Aprende a pedir perdón

   Este acto de sincero arrepentimiento quizás sea uno de los más
   difíciles de lograr para las personalidades orgullosas, porque sienten
   que bajan de “categoría”.

   El pedir perdón, y perdonarte, son de las habilidades estratégicas que
--
   somos perfectos en este plano físico. Ni siquiera tú.

   Una vez que transites por estos cinco pasos habrás empezado a dejar de
   lado tus actitudes orgullosas, conquistarás más libertad interior,
   estarás con menos ataduras a las creencias limitantes que tenías, y
   podrás conectarte contigo en primer lugar, y luego con las demás
   personas, en forma más equilibrada.</text>
</page> §
<page="es-47">
<text>   #Rivas con Orgullo » Feed Rivas con Orgullo » Feed de los comentarios
   alternate alternate alternate

     * Inicio
--

   Conócenos

   Si quieres ponerte en contacto con Rivas con Orgullo, puedes hacerlo en
   iu_equo@rivasciudad.es</text>
</page> §
<page="es-48">
<text>
   DONAR

No Dejes que el Orgullo Sea tu Guía

   por Rick Warren — Septiembre 21, 2021
   Print Friendly, PDF &amp; Email
--
   a los demás como superiores a ustedes mismos”. Filipenses 2:3 (NVI)

   Cada conflicto que se vive en una relación tiene el elemento del
   orgullo en el medio. Tenemos un problema de “yo”. “Yo” quiero lo que
   “yo” quiero y “yo” lo quiero ahora, y eso causa todo tipo de problemas.
   En cualquier relación, nunca dejes que el orgullo sea tu guía, porque
   el orgullo es la raíz de cualquier otro pecado.

   La Biblia dice en Filipenses 2:3: “No hagan nada por egoísmo o vanidad;
   más bien, con humildad consideren a los demás como superiores a ustedes
   mismos” (NVI). Pablo dice que hay dos tipos de orgullo que crean
   conflictos. Uno de ellos es la ambición egoísta y el otro es la
   vanidad. La ambición egoísta dice: “Todo gira en torno a mí” y la
   vanidad significa: “Siempre tengo la razón”.
--
   especialmente en las redes sociales. Es una gran tentación hacer que
   uno se vea mejor en Internet de lo que es.

   En Gálatas, Pablo enumera unos 17 efectos de vivir con orgullo. Dice
   que cuando vivimos una vida egocéntrica, se manifiesta de todo tipo de
   maneras. Comienza diciendo cosas como que la autosatisfacción se
   manifiesta en la inmoralidad sexual y en las fiestas desenfrenadas y en
--

   Si quieres ser feliz en tus relaciones, tienes que tener armonía. Y si
   vas a tener armonía, tienes que tener humildad. Nunca dejes que el
   orgullo sea tu guía.

Síguenos en nuestra cuenta de Instagram: @esperanzadiariadelpastorrick

--
       relación para servirte a ti mismo o a los demás?
     * ¿Cuáles son las formas prácticas de mantener la humildad en una
       relación?
     * ¿Cómo has visto que el orgullo destruye las relaciones? ¿Qué puedes
       hacer hoy para ayudar a restaurar esas conexiones?

Si todavía no has confiado en Jesús y no te has comprometido a seguirlo, ¿por</text>
</page> §
<page="es-49">
<text>
Substantive

       el orgullo   der Stolz  kein Pl.
       el orgullo   der Hochmut  kein Pl.
       el orgullo   die Aufgeblasenheit  Pl.
       el Orgullo   - Día Internacional del Orgullo LGTB   Pride
       el Orgullo   - día internacional del Orgullo LGTB   der Christopher
   Street Day [Abk.: CSD]
       orgullo desmesurado   die Hybris  kein Pl.
       orgullo nacional   der Nationalstolz  kein Pl.
       orgullo nobiliario   der Adelsstolz  kein Pl.
       orgullo de casta   der Standesdünkel  kein Pl.
       Día del Orgullo   - Día Internacional del Orgullo LGTB   der
   Christopher Street Day [Abk.: CSD]
       Día Internacional del Orgullo LGTB   der Christopher Street Day
   [Abk.: CSD]

Verben

       henchirse de orgullo   mit Stolz erfüllt werden

Phrasen

       El orgullo precede a la caída.      Hochmut kommt vor dem Fall.
       una buena dosis de orgullo [fig.]   eine ganze Menge Stolz
   Werbung

Forumsdiskussionen, die den Suchbegriff enthalten

   el Orgullo - Pride Letzter Beitrag:  15 Jan. 21, 19:27
   https://www.fundeu.es/recomendacion/world-pri...1. Día Internacional
   del Orgullo LGTBLos nom… 1 Antworten
   que ahí de tu orgullo Letzter Beitrag:  14 Dez. 07, 13:11
   "que ahí de tu orgullo que habíamos quedado" Wie heißt das übersetzt?
   Mich irrtiert das hal… 2 Antworten
   el Orgullo - der Christopher Street Day [Abk.: CSD] Letzter Beitrag:
   15 Jan. 21, 21:28
   https://www.duden.de/rechtschreibung/CSDChristopher Street
   Dayhttps://www.duden.de/rechtschr… 2 Antworten</text>
</page> §
<page="es-5">
<text>    2.
    3.

   Semana del Orgullo en el Palacio Bosch
   Arte, inteligencia artificial generativa y valores compartidos

   por U.S. Mission Argentina
   4 minutos
   noviembre 3, 2023

   Con motivo de la Semana del Orgullo en Argentina, el Palacio Bosch se
   transformará en un lienzo inmersivo. Con un enfoque pionero que combina
   la ingeniería de prompts, el arte y la diversidad, la residencia del
   Embajador de EE.UU. será el soporte de una técnica de mapping en alta</text>
</page> §
<page="es-50">
<text>     * Centroamérica Cuenta
     * BBC Extra

El lado más atrevido de Jane Austen, la autora de "Orgullo y Prejuicio" (y
cómo contrasta con la sociedad recatada que describía)

     * Fiona Macdonald
--

   Aunque asesinatos, violaciones y borrachas sean hechos de la vida real
   muy alejados del mundo de las hermanas Bennet y Mister Darcy de
   "Orgullo y Prejuicio", pero antes de que ellos existieran fueron esos
   temas oscuros los que cautivaron la imaginación de su creadora, Jane
   Austen.

--
   hermanos mayores, James y Henry, fundaron y escribieron un semanario
   humorístico, The Loiterer ('Los holgazanes') mientras estudiaban en el
   St John's College de Oxford".
   Escena de Orgullo y Prejuicio en producción de la BBC
   Pie de foto,

   "Es una verdad universalmente aceptada que todo soltero en posesión de
--
   más negativos".

   La madre de Austen, Cassandra, no consideró "Mansfield Park" tan buena
   como "Orgullo y Prejuicio", 1813. Y una amiga de la familia, Augusta
   Brownstone, la prefirió a otros libros de Austen, aunque imaginó que la
   razón podría ser su falta de gusto.

--

   Los primeros borradores de libros publicados posteriormente como Sense
   and Sensibility ("Sensatez y sentimientos", 1811), Pride and Prejudice
   ("Orgullo y prejuicio", 1813) y Northanger Abbey ("La abadía de
   Northanger", 1817) fueron escritos poco después del último de los
   cuadernos adolescentes.

   "No es muy fantasioso encontrar trazas de las fuertes heroínas de esos
   tempranos experimentos en la energía vulgar de Elizabeth Bennet
   ('cruzando campo tras campo a paso rápido, saltando montículos y
   charcos', (Orgullo y Prejuicio, cap. 7) y la peligrosamente
   indisciplinada imaginación de Emma Woodhouse".

   Lee la historia original en inglés en BBC Culture</text>
</page> §
<page="es-51">
<text>
   Biblia y Teología

13 versículos bíblicos sobre el orgullo

   21 Mayo, 2021  |  Equipo Coalición
   Compartir Compartir Tweet Tweet Correo electrónico
--
   24 versículos bíblicos sobre la pascua
   18 versículos bíblicos sobre la paciencia

   Al estudiar la Biblia vemos que la soberbia, el orgullo y la arrogancia
   son términos sinónimos. Las Escrituras constantemente llaman a los
   hijos de Dios a renunciar al pecado del orgullo. Aquí tienes esta lista
   de 13 versículos bíblicos sobre el orgullo.

   Te animamos a leerlos a la luz del evangelio considerando el ejemplo de
   humildad que Cristo nos mostró al despojarse de su gloria y venir al
--
   [CRUSOS_1000x1000.jpg]
     __________________________________________________________________

   “También quebrantaré el orgullo de su poderío, y haré sus cielos como
   hierro y su tierra como bronce” (Levítico 26:19).

   “Y el hombre que proceda con orgullo, no escuchando al sacerdote que
   está allí para servir al Señor tu Dios, ni al juez, ese hombre morirá.
   Así quitarás el mal de en medio de Israel. Entonces todo el pueblo
   escuchará y temerá, y no volverá a proceder con arrogancia”
--
   “Enmudezcan los labios mentirosos, porque hablan arrogantes contra el
   justo con soberbia y desprecio” (Salmo 31:18).

   “El temor del Señor es aborrecer el mal. El orgullo, la arrogancia, el
   mal camino y la boca perversa, yo aborrezco” (Proverbios 8:13).

   “Cuando viene la soberbia, viene también la deshonra; pero la sabiduría
   está con los humildes” (Proverbios 11:2).

   “Delante de la destrucción va el orgullo, y delante de la caída, la
   arrogancia de espíritu” (Proverbios 16:18).

   “La mirada altiva del hombre será abatida, y humillada la soberbia de
--

   “Porque de adentro, del corazón de los hombres, salen los malos
   pensamientos, fornicaciones, robos, homicidios, adulterios, avaricias,
   maldades, engaños, sensualidad, envidia, calumnia, orgullo e
   insensatez” (Marcos 7:21-22).

   “Porque temo que quizá cuando yo vaya, halle que no son lo que deseo, y</text>
</page> §
<page="es-52">
<text>   #Comunidad Cristiana » Feed Comunidad Cristiana » Feed de los
   comentarios Comunidad Cristiana » Comentario Versículos de la Biblia
   sobre el Orgullo del feed

   Saltar al contenido

--

   Versículos

Versículos de la Biblia sobre el Orgullo


                                 [INS: :INS]
--
                                 [INS: :INS]

   Bendiciones en este día, en esta oportunidad te damos a conocer una
   lista de Versículos de la Biblia sobre el Orgullo. Como hijos de Dios
   debemos conocer acerca de los hombres orgullosos en la Biblia, para que
   así podamos saber cómo vender el orgullo y lograr tener una mejor
   relación con Dios para que no suframos de las consecuencias del
   orgullo.
   [INS: :INS]

Versículos de la Biblia sobre el Orgullo

   Proverbios 11:2 (RVR60)

--
   Proverbios 11:2


¿Cómo vencer el orgullo según la biblia?

   El orgullo es el pecado principal, también puede ser perdonado. Puede
   ser perdonado por el humilde Salvador, “el cual, aunque existía en
   forma de Dios, no consideró el ser igual a Dios como algo a qué
   aferrarse, sino que se despojó a sí mismo tomando forma de siervo,
--
   muerte, llevando el pecado de la humanidad. El humilde se sustituyó a
   sí mismo por los soberbios.

Versículos clave sobre lo que Dios dice hacia el orgullo:

   Dios aborrece los ojos altivos (Proverbios 6:16-17).
   Dios odia una mirada orgullosa (Proverbios 6:16-17).
   Dios aborrece al altivo de corazón (Proverbios 16:5, 8:13).
   El orgullo es ateísmo práctico (Salmo 10:4).
   Cristo es ejemplo de humildad (Filipenses 2:6-11).
   Dios humilla a los que se exaltan a sí mismos (Isaías 10:12, Daniel
   4:20).
   Dios exalta a los humildes (Santiago 4:10).

Ejemplo de hombres orgullosos en la biblia

     * Pedro al creer que ciertas de sus acciones eras correctas y no las
       de Jesucristo.
--
     * Moíses al desobedecer instrucciones de Dios.

   Es por ello que debemos tener cuidado de no tener en nuestra vida los
   frutos del orgullo que recae en la humanidad que no deja que el perdón
   sea mayor. Además con estos versículos podrás conocer cuáles son las
   características de una persona orgullosa y así evitar que resalte para
   dar un buen testimonio. Esperamos que estos versículos donde habla del
   orgullo te sean de utilidad.
   5/5 - (1 voto)
   [INS: :INS]</text>
</page> §
<page="es-53">
<text>
   DONAR

El Orgullo Destruye, La Humildad Construye

   por Rick Warren — Agosto 8, 2022
   Print Friendly, PDF &amp; Email
--
   decir, considerando a los demás como mejores que ustedes”. Filipenses
   2:3 (NTV)

   El orgullo destruye las relaciones. Aparece de muchas maneras
   diferentes, como la crítica, la competencia, la terquedad y la
   superficialidad.

   El problema con el orgullo es que te engañas a ti mismo. Todos los
   demás pueden verlo en nosotros menos nosotros. Cuando tienes un
   problema con el orgullo, no lo ves en tu vida.

   Proverbios 16:18 dice: “El orgullo va delante de la destrucción, y la
   arrogancia antes de la caída” (NTV). Me encanta este versículo en la
   traducción de la paráfrasis del Mensaje: “Primero el orgullo, luego el
   choque: cuanto más grande es el ego, más dura es la caída”.

   El orgullo destruye las relaciones, pero la humildad es el antídoto
   contra el orgullo. La humildad construye relaciones. La Biblia dice en
   1 Pedro 3:8, “Todos deben ser de un mismo parecer. Tengan compasión
   unos de otros. Ámense como hermanos y hermanas. Sean de buen corazón y
   mantengan una actitud humilde” (NTV).</text>
</page> §
<page="es-54">
<text>
     Etiqueta social

     ¿Qué es el orgullo? Tipos de orgullo. Las personas orgullosas (con
   vídeo)

   Logo Protocolo y Etiqueta

¿Qué es el orgullo? Tipos de orgullo. Las personas orgullosas (con vídeo)

   El orgullo es el sentimiento de satisfacción que sentimos por algún
   logro obtenido, por un objetivo cumplido... pero sin convertirlo en un
   sentimiento exagerado que puede llegar a hacer de menos a los demás

--

   Se lee en 3 minutos.

   Persona se siente orgullosa por algún logro conseguido Sentirse
   orgulloso. Persona se siente orgullosa por algún logro conseguido
   protocolo.org - foto base FP Pro

Sentirse orgulloso. Cómo se comportan las personas orgullosas.

   El orgullo es una emoción, un sentimiento que tiene mucho que ver con
   cómo nos sentimos hacia nosotros mismos. Como sucede con otros aspectos
   de una persona, hay varios tipos de orgullo. Los clasificaremos en dos
   tipos de orgullo:

   1. El orgullo positivo. Es el orgullo que sentimos cuando tenemos una
   gran satifacción por algo que hemos logrado, que hemos hecho bien. O
   bien, cuando hemos conseguido una meta u objetivo que nos habíamos
   propuesto. También, nos podemos sentir orgullosos por los logros de
   otra persona, como puede ser de un hijo, de un amigo o de cualquier
   otra persona allegada a nosotros.

   2. El orgullo negativo. Es aquel sentimiento que va más asociado a la
   soberbia, al complejo de superioridad, a la envidia, a creerse más que
   los demás.

   Te puede interesar: Gestos de superioridad y arrogancia (con vídeo)

   El orgullo positivo es beneficioso porque nos ayuda a querernos más a
   nosotros mismos. Nos ayuda a valorarnos, pero siempre haciéndolo en su
   justa medida. Nos ayuda, incluso, a descubrir nuevas fortalezas.

  'No bajarse del burro' por orgulloso

   Las personas que no suelen dar 'su brazo a torcer', aquellas a las que
   le falta humildad, suelen ser los prototipos de personas orgullosas,
   que se creen que siempre tienen la razón porque son superiores a los
   demás. Las personas con un orgullo negativo exagerado suelen tener una
   gran falta de empatía. No saben ponerse en el lugar del otro, ni tan
   siquiera tratan de comprender el punto de vista del otro.

   Las personas orgullosas con cierto aire de superioridad tienen
   problemas para relacionarse con los demás, porque es complicado
   establecer vínculos con ellas. Hablan y se muestran superiores; creen
   tener siempre la razón o estar en posesión de la verdad. Son, como dice
   Laura, personas cansinas. Agota tratar con ellas, porque más que una
   relación es una 'lucha' la que se mantiene con este tipo de personas.

   Sentirse orgulloso por algo Qué es el orgullo. Sentirse orgulloso por
   algo
   protocolo.org - foto base FP Pro

   No debemos confundir que sentirse orgulloso por algo que nos ha costado
   mucho conseguir, un objetivo duro y complicado, con hacer de menos a
   alguien. Hay que ser orgullos pero humildes a la vez. Nos sentimos
   orgullosos, muy orgullosos de nosotros mismos, pero eso no nos hace
   superiores a los demás. Recordemos la conocida frase:

     "Hay cientos de cosas que nos pueden hacer mejores que los demás.
--

   La escritora y psicóloga clínica Laura Rojas-Marcos, acude al plató del
   estupendo programa divulgativo "La aventura del saber" para hablarnos
   del orgullo. ¿Qué es el orgullo? Cuántos tipo de orgullo hay. Cómo
   relacionarnos con las personas orgullosas.

   Ver más vídeos sobre protocolo, etiqueta y buenas maneras.</text>
</page> §
<page="es-55">
<text>     * COWORKING
     *

   [orgullo_md.webp]

                                                                    Volver

   El orgullo como error

   Miguel Albiñana

--
   Mas, como toda descripción simbólica, implica y relaciona al que la
   realiza y al que la recibe.

   Por ejemplo, al describir qué entendemos por orgullo cada persona tiene
   ya una visión de lo que lo es, o de lo que se imagina que es, por medio
   del aprendizaje y de la figura ya establecida en la mente, unida a unas
   sensaciones (emocionales, corporales) que han quedado gravadas en la
   memoria.

   Cada persona al pronunciar la palabra orgullo, de forma automática la
   asocia a una experiencia pasada, a un significado ya aprendido.

   Orgullo quiere expresar, de forma general, una sensación que acompaña a
   una persona que tiene un punto de vista de sí mismo, un concepto, más
   allá de sus cualidades reales u objetivas. Esta imparcialidad a su vez,
   la aporta la visión de los otros, quienes evalúan esa cualidad mediante
--
   función de la percepción del otro, de acuerdo con medidas previamente
   asimiladas.

   El orgullo, como todas las cualidades o defectos de la emoción, se
   origina y va sedimentando desde temprano en la evolución personal, y en
   función del entorno familiar, cultural y social.

   A veces, he escuchado que existen dos tipos diferentes de orgullo:
   positivo y negativo. Mi forma de entenderlo es diferente. Creo que se
   trata de una palabra que adopta dos significados. Pero que, en
   realidad, podría describirse con dos vocablos diferentes.

   Se habla de orgullo positivo cuando la persona está “legítimamente
   satisfecha de sí misma, de sus cualidades y acciones”. Desde una
   dimensión axiológica, y para quienes se interesan en el Perfil de
   valores de Hartman (PVH), son quienes poseen una dimensión
--

    Veamos esta definición:

     (El orgullo es una) … “estima apropiada de sí mismo, que proviene de
     la ambición moral de vivir en consecuencia plena con valores
     personales racionales” (Eyn Rand)

   En esta cita, la filósofa reúne en una persona con orgullo adecuado la
   concurrencia de los valores “racionales”, es decir establecidos por un
   orden moral interno (sistémico) con la percepción de sí mismo
   (orden intrínseco), que califica de “apropiada”. Es propia, de uno
--
   y acciones) de una forma acorde con ellos. Ser consecuente con sus
   valores internos.

   El orgullo, enfocado de esta manera, fue uno de los valores principales
   del mundo clásico, en especial en la antigua Grecia. El héroe heleno
   tiene una percepción “orgullosa” (que no vanidosa) de sí mismo y es
   motivo de gloria.

   En esta misma línea, el filósofo Nietzsche considera al orgullo como
   sinónimo de soberbia digna. Si vemos un árbol magnífico, o una obra de
   arte que nos fascina, a veces podemos exclamar ¡es soberbio! Para el
   alemán, una persona soberbia no tiene que dignificarse ni curarse con
   humildad, pues lo importante es vivir con los propios valores y
   cualidades y no empequeñecerlas. Vivir con valentía y superación
   personal es motivo de orgullo y un recordatorio de que debemos vivir
   con honestidad personal absoluta.

   Como este tipo de orgullo es una cualidad, y no una pasión o defecto,
   por el momento propongo llamarlo autoestima. Es decir, estima propia
   (que no depende del juicio de los demás) por lo más esencial de uno
   mismo, y no por lo que podemos calificar de aspectos “egóicos” o
   sobredimensionados. También porque no depende ni busca el juicio ni la
   aprobación de los demás.

   En francés, se dice de las personas orgullosas, en sentido negativo,
   que tienen “l’orgueil mal placé”, el orgullo situado en el lugar
   equivocado.

   Veamos ahora el orgullo entendido como una pasión, una fuerza que
   arrastra a la persona a expresiones de sí mismo más allá, o incluso
   fuera, de la realidad. Un pecado, o error de visión, que tiene
   consecuencias internas y externas y que desencaja y perturba el
   contacto verdadero consigo mismo y con los demás.

   El diccionario consultado encuentra en el vocablo orgullo algo similar
   a la altivez, a la soberbia o pundonor, e incluso a la vanidad. La
   persona orgullosa siente arrogancia y se sitúa por encima de los otros,
   hasta el punto de despreciar, por una parte, al que no está a la altura
   de sus expectativas y, por otra, a quien no coloca a su persona en la
   altura imaginada e imaginaria.

   En otro de los diccionarios de la red, he topado con estas
   descripciones como manifestaciones del orgullo: “Las manifestaciones
   típicas del orgullo son la rebeldía, el autoritarismo, la envidia, la
   crítica, el malhumor, el enfado, la arrogancia, etc.” Y he observado
   que la mayoría de las personas que se consideran incluidas dentro de lo
   que se estima orgullo están de acuerdo con que estas expresiones son
   frecuentes en ellas y, en todo caso, más habituales que en las que no
   se consideran orgullosas.

   A veces, el orgullo conlleva manifestaciones que se pueden confundir
   con la ira:

     ” Popularmente, se llama también soberbia a la rabia o al enfado que
--
   Satanás en el centro del infierno por su terrible pecado de querer ser
   como Dios. Atribuirse cualidades que no le pertenecen y que merecen,
   para Dante y su época, el más severo castigo. Esta sería la máxima
   expresión del orgullo.

   La distinción entre ira, orgullo y vanidad es sutil en ocasiones.

   En el Eneagrama del carácter se tratan como tres pasiones diferentes:
   la persona orgullosa se va a caracterizar por un encanto y una
   capacidad de seducción personal que no se da en los iracundos, que son
   poco a nada seductores. En tanto que se va a diferenciar de la vanidad
   en que su capacidad para perder los estribos emocionales es mucho mayor
   que la vanidosa. El vano, o vanidoso, busca mantener una imagen falsa
   con la que se identifica; cuida más las formas y teme perder la
   compostura. El y la orgulloso/a se considera principalmente libre de
   expresarse y hace de la libertad emocional su bandera personal.

   Llevado al terreno del exceso o límite emocional (que clínicamente se
   engloba en lo que se conoce como trastorno) el orgullo así entendido
   está en el territorio de:

      “Existe además el narcisismo patológico, diagnóstico de uso
--
   importancia personal, subyace y se esconde una baja autoestima, es
   decir un concepto pobre de sí mismo que es encubierto con
   sobre-importancia. De esta manera, esta descripción coincide también
   con la hipótesis del Eneagrama del carácter que afirma que el orgullo
   tiene un trasfondo de envidia, de carencia. Esta falta se recubre,
   desde la infancia, con la búsqueda ansiosa de importancia personal, en
   sus numerosas modalidades, así como de una autosuficiencia falsa. Visto
--
   recubierta de una pseudo-abundancia. “Para no descubrir lo que me
   falta, te seduzco o te ofrezco eso mismo de lo que carezco”.

   Encuentro sumamente importante entre personas orgullosas la descripción
   que suelen hacer del concepto “humillación”. El diccionario lo califica
   de:

     “Ofensa que alguien o algo causa en el orgullo o el honor de una
     persona”:"sufría reviviendo el recuerdo de las humillaciones y los
     agravios que tuvo que soportar".

   El sentido de la ofensa está vivo en el orgulloso. Sin embargo, su
   localización es complicada. Está tan profundamente recubierta de sobre
   importancia, y también de ira, que reconocerlo es un asunto complejo y
   sumamente doloroso. Así como el envidioso hace bandera de su
   sufrimiento, el orgulloso, recordando o reviviendo la humillación,
   entra generalmente en cólera, de forma activa reaccionando y, de manera
   pasiva, retirándose con grandes ampulosidades y emociones escondidas.

   Almaas, exdiscípulo de Naranjo, pone énfasis en la humillación como
   puerta de entrada a la salida espiritual del eneatipo orgulloso. Estima
   que solamente tocando profundamente esta sensación se puede encontrar
   el verdadero ser o esencia personal.

   Así pues, podemos aplicar a esta explicación del orgullo el dicho
   de: “dime de qué presumes y te diré de qué careces”. Tocar la carencia,
   la necesidad, será una salida, difícil, para el orgulloso y la
   orgullosa.

     “Aquel que es demasiado pequeño tiene un orgullo grande”.

     (Voltaire)

   En la siempre interesante Wikipedia, he encontrado estas
   manifestaciones del orgullo, que he contrastado con personas que se
   identifican con esta pasión y que estiman que han acertado bastante en
   su núcleo caracterológico:

--

   Y, seguramente también, atribuirse y exhibir los éxitos como trofeos y
   culpar a los demás de sus propios fracasos. Porque esto es una señal
   del carácter infantil, al que gran parte de los y las orgullosas
   pertenecen.

   La jovialidad, la alegría aparente, la facilidad para seducir, la
--
   emocional, aunque también herramienta de evitación de la verdadera
   afectividad.

   Mi intención ha sido reflexionar acerca del orgullo como pasión que
   domina a determinados caracteres. En ningún caso denigrar a uno en
   función de sus defectos o pecados. Ciertamente, estar demasiado
   satisfecho de sí mismo dificulta el progreso espiritual. Si es más o
--
   los expertos o más sabios o simplemente a la reflexión individual.

   En los 80s, cuando conocí a Claudio Naranjo, algunos alumnos teníamos
   la impresión de que el orgullo le parecía una pasión más difícil de
   tratar que las otras del Eneagrama. Fue una elucubración el pensar que
   hubiera caído en las redes amorosas de una persona orgullosa y
   seductora y que eso le tenia “en contra” de ese especial carácter. Y no
   hay nada inhumano en ello. Hemos visto cómo Dante se hace eco de esta
   pasión cristiana condenándola más que ninguna, sin que por ello
--

   Ni rebajarse ni ensalzarse más de la cuenta.

   Tal es el trabajo de la persona orgullosa.

   “A través del orgullo, nos engañamos a nosotros mismos. Pero en el
   fondo, bajo la superficie de la conciencia, una voz suave y apagada nos
   dice: algo no está bien”</text>
</page> §
<page="es-56">
<text>          +
          + 3 min read

El orgullo espiritual, más común de lo que creemos

   La Biblia usa diferentes palabras para hablar de orgullo: arrogancia,
   altivez, jactancia, pretensión, vanagloria. Todas apuntan a un corazón
   que se rebela, que quiere la honra para sí mismo y no para Dios. El
   corazón orgulloso no quiere someterse ni rendirse ante nada ni nadie.
   El orgullo es el pecado más antiguo. Y un pecado que Dios detesta.

   «Será humillado el orgullo del hombre y abatido el orgullo de los
   hombres. Solo el Señor será exaltado en aquel día» (Isa. 2:17).

   Los orgullosos no tienen lugar en Su presencia y el pecado del orgullo
   no quedará impune, será aplastado y expuesto. ¡Qué bueno que tenemos a
   Cristo que pagó incluso por este pecado! Sin embargo, ¿hay orgullo en
   mi corazón, en tu corazón? Esa es una pregunta que debemos hacernos.

   El orgullo fue el tema de una de las tantas parábolas que Jesús contó.
   La conocemos como la historia del fariseo y el publicano o el
   recaudador de impuestos. Al leerla, es mucho más fácil identificarnos
   con el publicano… como el que viene a suplicar la misericordia de Dios.
--

   La lista podría seguir, ¿verdad? Y también es verdad que en algún
   momento hemos pensado algo parecido. ¡Porque nuestro corazón es
   orgulloso y se cree más espiritual que el de los demás! Perdónanos,
   Señor.

   El llamado orgullo espiritual tiene muchas caras. A veces actúa como
   aquellos que oraban en alta voz en las calles, solo para que otros los
   vieran. Tal vez no lo hacemos de esa manera, pero sí usamos palabras
   rebuscadas al orar para impresionar a los demás, o creemos que el
   volumen de nuestra voz y nuestros ademanes llamarán la atención de
   Dios. Quizá creemos que nuestro conocimiento teológico nos hace
   superiores. Orgullo.

   Cuando presumimos de orgullo espiritual despreciamos la gracia de Dios,
   porque la gracia dice que nuestras buenas obras son innecesarias, que
   son trapos de inmundicia ante la santidad de Dios. ¿De qué presumimos?
   No hay nada que nos gane Su salvación ni Su favor. Y se nos olvida que
--
   debería ser, cada día, como la del publicano de la historia: «Dios, ten
   piedad de mí, pecador».

     Cuando presumimos de orgullo espiritual despreciamos la gracia de
     Dios, porque la gracia dice que nuestras buenas obras son
     innecesarias, que son trapos de inmundicia ante la santidad de Dios.

--
   engrandecido» (v. 14).

   Amiga lectora, llamemos a las cosas por su nombre. Reconozcamos nuestro
   orgullo como lo que es, pecado, y oremos, clamemos a Dios por un
   corazón humilde, un corazón despojado de este mal que envenena el alma
   y nos aleja de Él. ¡Podemos ir a la cruz, y crucificar este pecado!
   Como dijera Charles Spurgeon: «En la cruz hay una cura para cada</text>
</page> §
<page="es-57">
<text>    2. / Medio Oriente

Una multitud sale a las calles de Tel Aviv para celebrar el desfile del
Orgullo LGBT+

   Las calles de la ciudad israelí se tiñeron de arcoíris cuando miles de
   personas participaron del Desfile del Orgullo LGBTIQ+, una festividad
   que ocurre por primera vez desde que Israel abrió las fronteras tras la
   pandemia. Bajo un sol radiante y un ambiente ferviente, marcharon
   carros alegóricos y miles de personas coloridas enarbolando la bandera
--
   Primera modificación: 10/06/2022 - 19:54
   3 min
   Decenas de miles de personas asistieron al tradicional Desfile del
   Orgullo luego de que Israel abriera sus fronteras. Tel Aviv, 10 de
   junio, 2022. (BUTTON) 01:43
   Decenas de miles de personas asistieron al tradicional Desfile del
   Orgullo luego de que Israel abriera sus fronteras. Tel Aviv, 10 de
   junio, 2022. © Abir Sultán / EFE
   Por: Ramiro Cué Barberena
   Anuncios (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) Lee mas

   Este viernes 10 de junio decenas de miles de personas coparon Tel Aviv
   para ser parte del Desfile del Orgullo LGBTIQ+, el primero luego de que
   Israel abriera las fronteras tras la pandemia del Covid-19, y armaron
   un ambiente festivo.

   “Tel Aviv se complace en anunciar el regreso de su emblemático Desfile
   del Orgullo”, expresó la municipalidad en su sitio web. Además, la
   calificaron como “el mayor evento de su tipo en Medio Oriente”.

   Para esta celebración es común que acudan ciudadanos de otros países de
--
   tipo en el Medio Oriente. Los presentes pidieron igualdad en la reunión
   anual más grande de este tipo en el Medio Oriente. © Oded Balilty / AP

   Jerusalén también es sede de un desfile del orgullo, pero más moderado,
   con una rígida presencia policial y contraprotestas de los judíos
   ultraortodoxos.

--
   la app de France 24
   Compartir :
   Siga leyendo sobre el mismo tema:
     * Orgullo gay
     * Tel Aviv
     * Israel
     * Diversidad sexual</text>
</page> §
<page="es-58">
<text>    #Gaceta UNAM » Feed Gaceta UNAM » RSS de los comentarios Gaceta UNAM »
   El orgullo, bien valorado, nos da seguridad y confianza RSS de los
   comentarios alternate alternate

     * Likes
--

Genera bienestar

El orgullo, bien valorado, nos da seguridad y confianza

Es natural en todos los seres humanos y nos coloca en el centro de nuestra
propia vida, sin ser por ello egoístas
--
   Humanidades    Ene 12, 2023
   Compartir

   El orgullo es una emoción positiva, activadora y retrospectiva que se
   presenta luego de obtener un resultado favorable sobre alguna acción
   personal o para con otros. Por ejemplo, se experimenta al lograr un
   buen resultado al asistir a clase, estudiar o realizar exámenes. Genera
   bienestar, mejora la motivación y el compromiso conductual.

   En las experiencias de orgullo, el self (imagen de una/o misma/o: los
   sentimientos que una persona tiene sobre sí, su validez, su capacidad y
   el grado de bienestar y satisfacción que experimenta) se expone al
   escrutinio individual y social mediante los autodiálogos y los
--
   verbal y corporal del logro alcanzado, lo cual satisface la necesidad
   básica de sentirse competente.

   Las apreciaciones de control y valor activan el orgullo, emoción que
   puede afectar a los recursos cognitivos, a la motivación intrínseca y
   extrínseca, al uso de estrategias de aprendizaje, a la autorregulación
   y al rendimiento, los que a su vez repercuten en las valoraciones y las
--
   nivel de estatus y aceptación de una persona, a la vez que actúa como
   un reforzador de las conductas socialmente valoradas que ayudan a
   mantener un autoconcepto positivo y el respeto de otros. Asimismo, la
   expresión no verbal interpersonal de orgullo puede tener una función
   adaptativa complementaria al alertar a otros que la persona merecería
   mayor aceptación y estatus.

Descripción fisiológica, psicológica y neurofisiológica

   El orgullo tiene una expresión no verbal reconocible que incluye una
   sonrisa leve, postura expandida y cabeza levemente inclinada hacia
   atrás. Tal como el conjunto de emociones básicas (enojo, asco, miedo,
   alegría, tristeza y sorpresa) tiene señales no verbales diferenciadas y
   reconocidas universalmente.

   Esta emoción puede identificarse como positiva o negativa. El orgullo
   positivo se manifiesta en autoestima y autoconfianza, en amor hacia
   nosotros mismos. Nos ayuda a valorarnos y a descubrir nuevas
   fortalezas.
--
¿De qué manera reacciona nuestro cerebro?

   Distintas zonas del cerebro intervienen. Una investigación coordinada
   por José Sánchez-García, titulada “Dinámica neuronal del orgullo y la
   vergüenza en el contexto social: un enfoque con potenciales eléctricos
   cerebrales relacionados con eventos”, publicada en Brain structure and
   function (mayo de 2021), mostró que, de manera similar a la vergüenza,
   hay un desarrollo temporal dividido en dos etapas. En la primera, el
   orgullo se origina en el precúneo –en el lóbulo parietal superior– a
   los 300 milisegundos (ms) y las áreas frontales mediales y el cingulado
   anterior, vinculadas al significado social, que intervienen en torno a
   los 600-900 ms. En la segunda, se involucra a los lóbulos parietal,
--

   Charles Darwin, en su obra La expresión de las emociones en hombres y
   animales (1872), sugirió que “de todas las emociones complejas, el
   orgullo es, quizás, la más claramente expresada”.

   Una persona experimenta orgullo después de un logro que es valorado
   socialmente, generándole un sentimiento de autovaloración y
   autoeficacia que le informa que su comportamiento o conducta es
   apreciada por otros y es merecedora de un estatus mayor.

   Debe distinguirse entre el orgullo como emoción social y emoción de
   logro. El orgullo como emoción social distingue las facetas del orgullo
   auténtico y el arrogante. El orgullo como emoción de logro es más
   semejante al orgullo auténtico, a la emoción que está directamente
   relacionada con las actividades y resultados de logro, y que se ha
   aplicado para el estudio de las emociones en situaciones académicas. El
   orgullo de logro es una emoción retrospectiva que se experimenta, por
   ejemplo, al obtener un resultado positivo por el desempeño en clase.

Ejemplos concretos, su gama o variedad de formas
--
   y rendimiento académico.

   En un estudio con jóvenes universitarios determinaron el efecto
   positivo del orgullo sobre la motivación y las estrategias de
   aprendizaje. Encontraron que el orgullo en clase correlacionó
   positivamente con la autoeficacia social escolar y el beneficio
   percibido de la búsqueda de ayuda académica, y encontraron que se
   pueden presentar efectos positivos y negativos como consecuencia de
   experimentar orgullo de logro:
    1. Efectos negativos. Sentir vergüenza social, por ejemplo, cuando el
       profesor ha dicho frente a todos que el alumno fue el único que
       supo cómo manejar un programa; el joven puede expresar que, por un
       lado, le hizo sentirse orgulloso, pero por otro, también le dio
       vergüenza.
    2. Efectos positivos y sus expresiones. Pueden ser muy variados, como:

--
       desempeñarnos igual de bien o mejor que los demás; intercambiar
       ideas y conocimientos con amigos, compañeros o profesores nos hace
       descubrir que podemos estar a la altura de los demás.
     * Seguridad. El orgullo da seguridad y confianza, porque nos damos
       cuenta de que podemos hacer nuestras tareas. Nos empodera.
     * Motivación. Nos da energía para seguir adelante, ya sea estudiando,
       aprendiendo o desarrollando habilidades nuevas.
--
       alguna persona significativa en nuestras vidas para compartir la
       emoción, por ejemplo, con los padres o amigos.
     * Altruismo. Nos mueve a ayudar a los demás, al reconocer que podemos
       hacer que otros también experimenten el orgullo de logro.

Manejo adecuado y umbral de atención

   Sentir orgullo de manera sana nos conecta con la admiración por
   nosotros mismos y nos permite reconocer lo que somos, satisfacernos por
   algo que logramos o por conseguir una meta planteada.

--
   que esto implica.

   Su objetivo es hacer que nos reconozcamos a nosotros mismos. También
   podemos sentirnos orgullosos por los logros de alguien más: un hijo, un
   amigo, los hermanos o cualquier otra persona cercana.

   Culturalmente, es una de las emociones que se intenta anular a nivel
   social, porque se asocia con la soberbia, el rencor y la consideración
   de estar por encima de los demás. Denota el riesgo de que su manejo
   inadecuado puede llegar a generar un sentimiento de orgullo extremo, de
   soberbia, que nos coloque en un pedestal y sentirnos inalcanzables. Por
   otra parte, la ausencia extrema de orgullo se asocia a baja autoestima
   y al complejo de inferioridad.

Referentes culturales y de divulgación

     * Guillermo del Toro, orgulloso de su doctorado honoris causa
       otorgado por la UNAM.
     * En años recientes, las diversidades sexuales y de género han usado
       la palabra “orgullo” (pride) para reafirmar su presencia y abrir
       espacios, derechos y reconocimiento a minorías largamente
       censuradas y excluidas del escenario social.
     * “El orgullo de los mediocres consiste en hablar siempre de sí
       mismos, el orgullo de los grandes hombres en no hablar nunca de
       ellos”: Voltaire.

   Diccionario de las emocionesG5352HumanidadEs Comunidadorgullo
   Compartir
   También podría gustarte
   Academia</text>
</page> §
<page="es-59">
<text>
   Pasar al contenido principal

L'Orgullosa

Navegació principal

   (BUTTON) Open menu mobile Menú

L'Orgullosa

   (BUTTON) Close menu mobile
     * Inicio
     * La Orgullosa
     * Orgullo de barrio
     * Orgullo de Museos
     * El cartel

   La Orgullosa
   La Orgullosa
   (BUTTON) Ir al contenido
   Orgullo de barrio
   Orgullo de barrio
   (BUTTON) Ir al contenido
   Orgullo de museos
   Orgullo de museos
   (BUTTON) Ir al contenido

   #BARCELONALGTBI

El Orgullo llena la ciudad

   Barcelona se vuelve a vestir de fiesta y reivindicación durante el mes
   de junio para conmemorar el Día Internacional del Orgullo y defender
   los derechos y las libertades de los colectivos LGTBI.

   Con las propuestas “Orgullo de barrio” y “Orgullo de museos”, este año
   se presenta una amplia programación de actividades durante todo el mes
   de junio, elaborada en colaboración con el Centro LGTBI de Barcelona
   —gestionado por la Plataforma de Entidades LGTBI de Cataluña—. Una
--
   género.

   La celebración culminará el mismo 28J, con la segunda edición del
   multitudinario concierto musical La Orgullosa.
   Más información

LA ORGULLOSA

   Concierto multitudinario en el Moll de la Fusta con acceso gratuito

   Un año más, la conmemoración del Día Internacional del Orgullo LGTBI
   culmina el 28 de junio con la segunda edición de La Orgullosa. El Moll
   de la Fusta será escenario este año de este concierto multitudinario
   que se consolida para celebrar la diversidad, el amor, las disidencias,
   las corporalidades diversas y el orgullo del colectivo LGTBI.

   Presentado por la artista Llum, el espectáculo ha sido diseñado para
   bailar, viajar y reivindicar los derechos del colectivo, con las
--
   Set, entre muchos otros.
   Más información

ORGULLO DE BARRIO

   Más de 100 propuestas artísticas para celebrar la diversidad

   Durante el mes de junio, el Orgullo vuelve a llenar la ciudad, a través
   de una programación descentralizada que acerca la conmemoración a cada
   barrio, para hacer disfrutar de la fiesta y la celebración a toda la
   ciudadanía.

   Bajo el lema “Orgullo de barrio” se presentan más de cien propuestas
   artísticas que visibilizan la pluralidad de las miradas del colectivo.
   Una programación intergeneracional, transfeminista e interseccional,
   elaborada en colaboración con el Centro LGTBI de Barcelona —gestionado
--
   año, trabajan para reivindicar los derechos LGTBIQA+.
   Consulta todos los actos

ORGULLO DE MUSEOS

   Exposiciones, talleres y visitas guiadas en clave LGTBI

--

EL CARTEL

   El universo de Egle Zvirblyte, imagen del Orgullo y la Orgullosa

   Las ilustraciones de la propuesta municipal para celebrar el Día del
   Orgullo LGTBI y del cartel musical de La Orgullosa son obra de la
   artista lituana Egle Zvirblyte, quien, a lo largo de su carrera, ha
   incidido temáticamente en las ideas de “identidad, transformación,
   conexión humana y empoderamiento femenino”, plasmadas con un uso
--

Ajuntament Actualitat Llistat

     * 20/06/2023 - 15:38 h Segunda edición de la Orgullosa, el concierto
       para celebrar el Día Internacional del Orgullo LGTBI
       La gala musical de la Orgullosa será el 28 de junio, a partir de
       las 19.00 horas, en el Moll de la Fusta.
     * 19/06/2023 - 10:57 h Cerca de un centenar de actividades para
       celebrar el Orgullo de barrio
       La celebración del Orgullo LGTBI se extiende a todos los barrios de
       la ciudad con más de cien propuestas artísticas para celebrar la
       diversidad sexual, afectiva y de género.
     * 15/06/2023 - 14:06 h ¿Qué puedes hacer en Nou Barris del 16 al 22
--
       ‘Flamenco y flores’, del distrito de Sant Andreu, muy sonriente
     * Charlie Benedetti haciendo una mueca en una de las sesiones de “Me
       siento extraña”, del distrito de L’Eixample
     * Logotipo colorido de la “Exposición de la Fiesta del Orgullo del
       Karmel”
     * Público aplaudiendo en una de las sesiones del ciclo Melòmans, del
       distrito de Sants-Montjuïc
--
     * Decoración de luces de neón en forma de cuerpo humano en el Candy
       Darling Bar, local que acogió las sesiones de “Me siento extraña”
     * Tonadilleras Show System, artistas que participaron en la
       Esbiaixada, la primera fiesta del Orgullo de Sarrià
     * Primer plano de ‘merchandising’ con la gráfica de La Orgullosa
     * Una de las promotoras de Ia “Exposición de la Fiesta del Orgullo
       del Karmel” durante la inauguración
     * Brigitta Lamoure durante la inauguración de la “Exposición de la
       Fiesta del Orgullo del Karmel”
     * Unas flores de papel decoran el espacio que acogió el espectáculo
       ‘Flamenco y flores’, en el distrito de Sant Andreu
     * Una de las actuaciones musicales incluidas en el concierto</text>
</page> §
<page="es-6">
<text>
Documentales en Pelidom

   Disfruta de los documentales de Orgullo de Mi Tierra

Canción «Dominicano Soy» de Fernando Villalona junto a artistas dominicanos

--

   Leer más →

Recap Orgullo de Mi Tierra

   Leer más →

--

   Tel.: (809) 537-5017

   Email: orgullodemitierra@ccn.net.do
     __________________________________________________________________

   Cargando...</text>
</page> §
<page="es-60">
<text>    2. Acerca de la OIT
    3. Misión e impacto
    4. Historias de impacto
    5. El orgullo de las mujeres trabajadoras ...

   Argelia

El orgullo de las mujeres trabajadoras

   Un nuevo estudio de la OIT analiza las dificultades y las oportunidades
   en materia de empleo de las mujeres en Argelia
   Reportaje | 16 de enero de 2014
   ARGEL (OIT Noticias) - “Estoy orgullosa de mi trabajo, pero los hombres
   dicen que nosotras las mujeres trabajadoras hemos robado sus empleos.
   Nuestra sociedad es intransigente”.
   Esta afirmación de una mujer argelina de 42 años de Tissemsilt</text>
</page> §
<page="es-61">
<text>       (BUTTON) Cambiar
     __________________________________________________________________

Orgullo y libertad

     * Autores: Belén Hoyo Juliá
     * Localización: El siglo de Europa, ISSN 2254-9234, Nº. 1207 (30</text>
</page> §
<page="es-62">
<text>   2022-08-01 16:11:00 -0600
   Inscríbete al Diplomado en línea ‘Hacienda Pública Municipal’

Día de la Bandera de México: orgullo nacional, libertad, justicia y
nacionalidad.

La bandera, junto con el escudo y el himno nacional, son los símbolos que nos
--
   parte de abajo con ramas de encino y laurel.

   Ahora que conoces un poco más de nuestra Bandera Nacional, símbolo de
   los Estados Unidos Mexicanos, debemos sentirnos orgullosos de ella.

   Municipios de México, aprovechemos este día tan importante para todos
   los mexicanos, a fin de sensibilizar y promover la difusión, el</text>
</page> §
<page="es-63">
<text>
   Juin 17, 2019 Index Number: EUR 44/0541/2019

Turquía: Debe garantizarse que las marchas del Orgullo pueden celebrarse con
seguridad

   El 14 de junio, la gobernación de Esmirna prohibió todos los actos del
   Orgullo, y la de Antalya hizo lo mismo al día siguiente. En otras
   ciudades se han impedido actos del Orgullo o existe el peligro
   inminente de que se prohíban. Una de ellas es Estambul, donde la
   celebración del Orgullo peligra por quinto año consecutivo.

Choose a language to view report</text>
</page> §
<page="es-7">
<text>
    1. Inicio
    2. Dosieres
    3. NEBRIJA (c. 1444-1522). El orgullo de ser gramático «Grammaticus
       nomen est professionis»

NEBRIJA (c. 1444-1522). El orgullo de ser gramático «Grammaticus nomen est
professionis»

   (BUTTON)
--

   Volver

NEBRIJA (c. 1444-1522). El orgullo de ser gramático «Grammaticus nomen est
professionis»

   Dosier de prensa
   NEBRIJA (c. 1444-1522). El orgullo de ser gramático «Grammaticus nomen
   est professionis»

   Imagen
   NEBRIJA (c. 1444-1522). El orgullo de ser gramático «Grammaticus nomen
   est professionis»

   En la primera semana de julio de 2022, se cumplieron quinientos años de
--
   Al descubrimiento de su perfil intelectual se dedica esta exposición,
   que no deja de lado al hombre que hay detrás de tantas páginas escritas
   e impresas. Aquel profesor de gramática que renunció a la vida
   eclesiástica y optó por el matrimonio se sintió muy orgulloso del
   camino escogido y, a través de sus prólogos, cartas dedicatorias y
   poemas, dio de sí una imagen que lo acerca a nosotros. Por haber vivido
   en una época tan dinámica como la España del siglo XV y comienzos del
--
   Nebrija, el gramático a cargo de Teresa Jiménez Calvente, com
   vista
   Convocatoria de prensa
   NEBRIJA (c. 1444-1522). El orgullo de ser gramático «Grammaticus nomen
   est professionis»

   Convocatoria de prensa. 23 de noviembre a las 10:00h
   vista
   Exposición
   NEBRIJA (c. 1444-1522). El orgullo de ser gramático «Grammaticus nomen
   est professionis»

   En la primera semana de julio de 2022, se cumplen quinientos años de la
--
   castellana y se inaugurará en noviembre
   vista
   Documentos / Enlaces de interés
     * Hoja de sala de la exposición 'NEBRIJA (c. 1444-1522). El orgullo
       de ser gramático «Grammaticus nomen est professionis»' (PDF - 739
       KB)
     * Folleto de la exposición 'NEBRIJA (c. 1444-1522). El orgullo de ser
       gramático «Grammaticus nomen est professionis»' (PDF - 27 MB)

Multimedia</text>
</page> §
<page="es-9">
<text>
                                                                 Editorial

                          El orgullo de ser médico
     __________________________________________________________________

   Es para mí una obligación moral, aparte de una necesidad personal,
--

   Creo que esta es la profesión más honorable a la cual se puede dedicar
   alguien. Cada día que pasa voy con la cabeza más en alto y me siento
   más orgulloso de ser lo que soy. Siento que puedo ayudar a todos los
   que lo necesiten; en definitiva, es mi motivación diaria, motivación
   sin la cual no podría haber llegado hasta donde me encuentro ahora
   mismo. Sé que en la vida se toman decisiones acertadas y decisiones
--
   justo que médicos y pacientes suframos las consecuencias de la falta de
   planificación nacional en materia de seguridad social.

   Me siento orgulloso de pertenecer a una profesión en la que aún es
   importante la ética, el compromiso con los demás y la capacidad de
   sacrificio. Figura 1</text>
</page> §
</lang>
<lang="fr1">
<page="fr1-1">
<text>
     * EN ES DE IT

   Accueil >gt;Langue française >gt; Dictionnaire >gt; fierté
   Accueil >gt; langue française >gt; dictionnaire >gt; fierté n.f.
     * Définitions
     * Citations

--
   +
   

 fierté

   nom féminin
     * 1. Littéraire. Caractère de quelqu'un qui se croit supérieur aux
       autres ; morgue, arrogance, hauteur : Abaisser la fierté de
       quelqu'un.
       Synonymes :
       arrogance - hauteur - infatuation - morgue - orgueil - suffisance -
--
       humilité - modestie
     * 2. Littéraire. Indépendance de caractère de quelqu'un qui a le
       sentiment de son honneur ; dignité, noblesse, amour-propre : Il
       souffrait dans sa fierté d'homme.
       Synonymes :
       amour-propre - dignité - réserve
     * 3. Sentiment d'orgueil, de satisfaction légitime de soi ; ce qui
       fait concevoir ce sentiment : Il tire une grande fierté d'avoir
       achevé son entreprise.
       Synonymes :
       contentement - satisfaction
--
   VOUS CHERCHEZ PEUT-ÊTRE
     __________________________________________________________________

   fierté n.f.

   Caractère de quelqu'un qui se croit supérieur aux autres ; morgue,
   arrogance...
   

Citations avec fierté

     * Claude Aveline (Paris 1901-Paris 1992)
       Il n'est pas d'amour sans fierté, et par conséquent sans témoin.
       Et tout le reste n'est rien, Mercure de France
     * Georges Bernanos (Paris 1888-Neuilly-sur-Seine 1948)
       Il est beau de s'élever au-dessus de la fierté. Encore faut-il
       l'atteindre.
       Journal d'un curé de campagne, Plon
     * Gaston, duc de Lévis (Paris, 1764-Paris 1830)
       Académie française, 1816
       De tous les sentiments, le plus difficile à feindre c'est la
       fierté.
       Maximes et réflexions sur divers sujets

Mots proches

   fierté
   -
   syndrome_de_Fiessinger-Leroy-Reiter
   -</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-10">
<text>
   Isabelle Barth

La fierté de manager, la fierté d’entreprendre

   En un clin d'œil

   Réfléchir à la Fierté, c’est constater que c’est un sentiment, assez
   mal compris et finalement assez peu partagé en France, patrie de l’auto
   critique et de l’auto flagellation.

   Pourquoi être fier ? et être fier de quoi ? de qui ?

Pourquoi débattre de la Fierté ?

   A Paris, des milliers de personnes venant des quatre coins du monde se
   croisent tous les jours sur l’esplanade du Trocadero, et, rappelons-le,
--

   Or, je connaissais bien le tailleur de pierres, maintenant décédé, qui
   a gravé ces mots. Tailleur de pierre de père en fils, il m’a toujours
   dit sa fierté de faire ce métier, et il avait été tout particulièrement
   fier d’avoir été choisi pour graver ces mots initiateur des droits de
   l’homme au Trocadéro.

--
   Je me suis alors posée la question.  Sommes-nous tous ainsi fiers de ce
   que nous faisons, fiers de ce que nous sommes ?

Qu’est-ce que la fierté ?

   L’étymologie nous donne trois pistes intéressantes à explorer :
     * La première est l’origine latine du verbe fidere qui a permis de
--
       pride (confiance en anglais) vient du vieux français preux,
       synonyme de courageux. Il me semble que cette alliance de la
       confiance et du courage renvoie bien aux bonnes pratiques du
       management. Elle est une excellente raison de revendiquer la fierté
       d’être manager ou entrepreneur.

     * Or, il existe une troisième origine : le mot latin ferus qui
       signifie « farouche », « sauvage », et qui renvoie à une face plus
       obscure de la fierté, quand elle décrit une personne réservée, peu
       accessible, voire même susceptible, et attestant d’une haute
       opinion de sa valeur.

   Cette fierté-là confine à l’orgueil. Si la fierté est un sentiment
   noble qui permet d’avancer avec assurance dans la vie, sans avoir à se
   mesurer aux autres, ni à les rabaisser, l’orgueil exprime « le mépris
   de tout, sauf de soi-même », selon le philosophe Théophraste.

   Ce lien avec l’orgueil explique certainement cette méfiance pour la
   fierté que nous avons dans le contexte culturel français. L’orgueil est
   en effet, dans la religion catholique, un péché capital, puisqu’il
   exprime du mépris pour les autres, et par là-même pour la création
   divine et pour Dieu.

   La culture judéo-chrétienne prône plutôt l’humilité et son expression
   directe qu’est la modestie. Or, l’humilité qui est la  qualité de se
   voir de façon réaliste, ne s’oppose pas à la fierté. Au contraire, une
   personne peut être fière de ce qu’elle a fait, parce qu’elle possède
   suffisamment d’humilité pour évaluer les efforts qu’elle a dû fournir
   pour y arriver.
--

De quoi pouvons-nous être fiers ?

   Nous pouvons avoir quatre motifs de fierté :
     * Être fiers de ce que nous sommes, même si nous n’y sommes pas
       toujours pour grand-chose quand il s’agit d’être fier d’être
       Français,
--
       enfants, fiers de nos collaborateurs, comme des salariés peuvent
       être fiers de leur entreprise,
     * Et enfin, être fiers de ce que nous réalisons, d’autant plus fiers
       qu’il y a des difficultés, des défis à relever. La fierté renvoie
       alors au mérite. C’est là où s’exprime véritablement la fierté :
       celle qui est lié au mérite, mérite d’avoir réussi, d’être devenu
       ce que nous sommes, d’avoir contribué à des succès partagé.

--
   capacité à la prise de risque est indissociable d’autres apprentissages
   du management, et, comme beaucoup, elle n’est pas innée mais s’éduque.

Du sentiment individuel à la fierté du collectif

   Un des défis du manager est de diffuser ce sentiment de fierté à toutes
   les personnes avec qui il travaille, de passer de l’individuel au
   collectif. La fierté rejoint alors la notion d’appartenance à un
   groupe, que connaissent bien les sportifs. Il faut alors promouvoir le
   collectif, mais le faire dans le respect de chacune des personnes qui
   le constituent.

   Cette fierté de collaborer à une entreprise est intimement lié au
   bien-être au travail, et constitue une des conditions de la
   performance.

   D’autres ressorts de l’entreprise comme la créativité et l’innovation
   sont en lien avec la fierté, dans le sens où se crée un cercle
   vertueux. En effet, la fierté, par la confiance en soi qu’elle
   autorise, facilite le chemin de la réussite, et la réussite donne un
   sentiment de fierté, fierté d’avoir passé les obstacles, fierté du
   travail bien fait. Le contexte est alors beaucoup plus porteur pour
   créer et innover.

   L’essence du management est de donner du sens aux missions de personnes
   pour collaborer ensemble à la réussite de projets communs. La fierté
   constitue un ciment indispensable de l’acte managérial.

Fier d’être manager, fier d’être entrepreneur</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-11">
<text>   Espace de recherche
   ____________________ Rechercher

La fierté

   La joie du travail “bien fait”
   Tom
--
   Découvrir Voir tout

   Lorsqu'on est satisfait de son travail, on est fier de soi. Et c'est
   bien normal, et très bien ! Mais en entreprise, une fierté mal placée a
   vite fait d'affleurer, se confondant aisément avec l'orgueil ou la
   suffisance aux yeux des autres. Pourrait-on faire place à une fierté
   qui puisse être collective au travail ?

   Se sentir « fier de soi », qui ne le souhaite pas ? Pourquoi consacrer
--
   accomplissements ? Si l’amour-propre est considéré comme un vilain
   défaut, force est de constater qu’on a toujours besoin d’être un tant
   soit peu fier de ce qu’on fait. Est-il si condamnable de bomber le
   torse lorsqu’on est couronné de succès ? Et en quoi la fierté peut-elle
   être le moteur non pas d’un individualisme forcené, mais d’une ambition
   collective ?

   Commençons par distinguer la fierté de l’honneur. Si l’honneur suppose
   une relation avec les autres (on cherche à se conformer à un statut ou
   à un rôle), la fierté implique un rapport à soi. Elle relève de
   l’autosatisfaction. Elle suppose qu’on se fasse une idée de sa propre
   hauteur ou de ses mérites. Elle procure apaisement, confiance, mais
   peut aussi tourner à la prétention, ou au narcissisme. C’est pourquoi
   la fierté soulève trois questions au travail : celle de sa légitimité
   (comment la distinguer de l’orgueil mal placé ?) ; celle de son apport
   au travail (la fierté peut-elle nous donner confiance, nous
   encourager ?) ; et celle de sa participation à l’épanouissement de
   l’individu (comme corollaire d’un travail bien fait et satisfaisant).


Fier(s) à bras

   Si on la rapporte à un désir vaniteux, la fierté peut être jugée plus
   ou moins juste : « se complaire en soi-même, c’est se détacher du bien
   supérieur immuable en lequel on devrait se complaire plutôt qu’en
   soi-même », écrit saint Augustin (La Cité de Dieu, XIV, 13). Il y a une</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-12">
<text>   #Institut Français du Leadership Positif » Flux Institut Français du
   Leadership Positif » Flux des commentaires Institut Français du
   Leadership Positif » La fierté est-elle vraiment un vilain défaut ?
   Flux des commentaires alternate alternate alternate

   Institut Français du Leadership Positif
--

   ____________________

   La fierté est-elle vraiment un vilain défaut ?

La fierté est-elle vraiment un vilain défaut ?

   By IFLP28 mars 2017avril 4th, 2017À la une, Article ressource,
   Psychologie Positive
   One Comment

   La fierté est souvent considérée comme une émotion négative, l’opposé
   de l’humilité, et même une source de conflit en société. Pas pour la
   psychologue Jessica Tracy qui vient d’écrire le livre « Take Pride: Why
   the Deadliest Sin Holds the Secret to Human Success ». Pour Tracy, la
   fierté nous vient de notre héritage ancestral, c’est une force qui nous
   pousse à donner le meilleur de nous-même.

   Les signes physiques qui expriment la fierté (poitrine en avant, tête
   en arrière et un léger sourire) sont reconnus dans de nombreuses
   cultures, encourageant la déférence d’autrui et la valeur travail comme
   moyen d’intégration sociale. Le degré d’auto-évaluation de sa
--
   scientifiquement prouvé de bien-être optimal et durable. C’est
   également un facteur de développement des apprentissages car les
   enfants comme les adultes vont se sentir à l’écoute de l’expertise
   induite par la fierté exprimée (consciemment ou pas).

   Les chercheurs Williams LA. et De Steno D. ont par ailleurs démontré
   dans une étude le lien motivationnel de la fierté dans la persévérance.
   L’émotion induite par ce sentiment de fierté nous motive à persévérer
   dans des tâches par ailleurs difficiles et contraignantes.

Le côté obscur de la fierté.

   Pourtant tout n’est pas rose, comme nous le rappelle Tracy. Le côté
   obscur de la fierté mène droit à l’hubris, l’orgueil, la démesure,
   lorsqu’on s’appuie sur les autres pour se grandir soi-même. Une
   personnalité narcissique blessée peut se cacher derrière une forme
   dénaturée de la fierté et manager dans la malveillance. Il ne s’agit
   plus ici d’aspiration au bien-être authentique, mais plutôt de se
   protéger d’un mal-être profond.

   Ainsi Donald Trump doit sa popularité à sa fierté ressentie et exprimée
   qui lui donne une image de puissance et d’expertise auprès du grand
   public, tout en étant plus proche de l’orgueil dans son expression
   parfois arrogante et agressive. Claire E. Ashton-James et Jessica L.
   Tracy ont démontré dans une étude que les personnes sujettes à une
   fierté authentique voyaient leur niveau d’empathie augmenter, au
   contraire des sujets orgueilleux…

Comment résister aux sirènes de l’orgueil ?
--
   permettent d’en récolter les fruits (le statut, le succès etc.),
   l’oublier c’est se soumettre aux sirènes du gain facile.

   La fierté est un vecteur de motivation et de transformation personnelle
   pour contribuer au fonctionnement optimal de notre société.

   Céline Simonnet Lafont</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-13">
<text>   Accès Candidats

   Ressources RH / Conseils en ressources humaines / Qualité de vie au
   travail / Management: 3 axes pour développer la fierté des
   collaborateurs
   Rechercher ____________________

Management: 3 axes pour développer la fierté des collaborateurs

   Management: 3 axes pour développer la fierté des collaborateurs

À la base de la fierté, on trouve la confiance et le plaisir. En favorisant
la fierté individuelle des collaborateurs, le manager développe aussi la
fierté collective.

   Pour un collaborateur, être fier de son travail est source d’engagement
   et de performance. Dans la fierté en effet, il y a du plaisir, plaisir
   qui produit de la dopamine, un neurotransmetteur qui permet de
   ressentir de la satisfaction. Une bonne raison pour les managers de
   développer ce sentiment au sein de leurs équipes.

1. Commencer par la fierté individuelle

   Le manager doit d’abord tenir compte du fait que le ressenti de la
   fierté est variable d’une personne à l’autre. Un collaborateur très
   exigeant sera moins facilement fier que quelqu’un d’accommodant. Le
   manager, par ses feedbacks, ses décisions, les signes de reconnaissance
   qu’il envoie, doit permettre à la personne de se sentir fière d’elle,
   car la fierté individuelle est le socle. « Alimentée par ce qu’est la
   personne et par son environnement, elle renvoie à qui l’on est et à ce
   qu’on fait. Le collaborateur à qui l’on confie une mission peut se dire
   que c’est parce qu’il est une personne de confiance qu’on la lui
--
2. Créer un cercle vertueux à partir de la confiance

   Délaisser le command &amp; control pour miser sur le trust, test &amp; learn
   est une attitude propice au développement de la fierté des
   collaborateurs. Que fait Michel et Augustin, PME d’environ 200
   personnes, pour parvenir à récolter 7000 CV par an ? Comment Davidson
   Consulting s’y est pris pour obtenir quatre fois le label Great Place
--
   idée, elle a été soutenue par leur employeur. Davidson Consulting quant
   à lui, avec son slogan You see it, you do it!,  fait confiance à ses
   collaborateurs pour avoir des idées et développe ainsi leur sentiment
   de fierté. Dans le but de transmettre la passion de leur métier et les
   valeurs du groupe, le Da Vidson Code a été coécrit par les salariés du
   cabinet de conseil les plus engagés.

3. Développer la fierté dans toutes ses dimensions

   Il faut envisager la fierté dans toutes ses dimensions : la fierté
   personnelle, la fierté contributive et la fierté d’appartenance, qui
   peut aussi être liée aux résultats de l’équipe. « Pour être fier, il
   faut être autonome plutôt que soumis, désireux de progresser et
   d’apprendre, comprendre le sens de son travail, avoir le sentiment de
   contribuer à quelque chose d’utile et de grand », poursuit notre
   interlocutrice. L’entreprise fière de ses produits qui manque de
   reconnaissance envers ses collaborateurs se prive de la force de leur
   fierté personnelle, elle affaiblit les messages de sa marque employeur.
   Et les collaborateurs, par manque de feedback et de reconnaissance,
   peuvent développer de l’orgueil mal placé. Confiance, plaisir,
   reconnaissance, autonomie, sens du travail, alignement des valeurs sont
   autant d’éléments qui participent au sentiment de fierté. « En
   s’appuyant sur eux, le manager contribue à développer la fierté dans
   toutes ses dimensions », conclut Isabelle Rey-Millet.

Recruter rapidement et efficacement avec Monster
--
       effectifs
     * Déconfinement : permettre le retour au bien-être au travail

   Management: 3 axes pour développer la fierté des collaborateurs

Recrutez plus rapidement avec Monster !</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-14">
<text>   Planifier une démo
   FR
   EN
   AccueilBlogComment développer la fierté d'appartenance des
   collaborateurs ?
   Liens
   Actualités
--
   En lire plus
   En lire plus

Comment développer la fierté d'appartenance des collaborateurs ?

   Restés informés !
   Face aux défis de la transformation de nos entreprises, comptez sur nos
--

   Accueil
   >gt;
   Comment développer la fierté d'appartenance des collaborateurs ?

Comment développer la fierté d'appartenance des collaborateurs ?

   Fierté d'appartenance : retrouvez les 4 principales étapes pour
   améliorer la fierté d'appartenance des collaboraters en entreprise !

   Le Jan 25, 2023
   Comment développer la fierté d'appartenance des collaborateurs ?

   Sommaire

--
   leur travail … un véritable fléau pour les entreprises.

   Mais comment améliorer l’engagement des collaborateurs ? En développant
   leur fierté d’appartenance … c’est la base !

   En effet, il y a une corrélation certaine et évidente entre la fierté
   d’appartenance, le degré d’engagement, la mobilisation et le rendement
   des entreprises.

   Tout d’abord, le sentiment d’appartenance est porté directement par la
   direction et les managers. Elle se développe lorsque les salariés et le
   dirigeant partagent des valeurs, des objectifs communs, et une même
   réalité. De plus, cette fierté d’appartenance est motivée par le
   partage, la confiance et la sincérité mis en place par l’entreprise.

   De plus, les entreprises ont moins de difficulté à embaucher, du fait
--
   les entreprises. Mais comment faire pour remédier à ce résultat si bas
   des Français ?

   Voici donc les 4 étapes qui vont vous permettre de développer la fierté
   d’appartenance et l’engagement de vos collaborateurs !

1 – Un rôle, des responsabilités claires et des tâches précises
--

   De plus, l’utilisation complète des capacités personnelles et
   professionnelles est également un facteur de motivation, d’équilibre
   psychologique et contribue aussi au développement de la fierté
   d’appartenance. Il est important de former ses salariés dans le but de
   les faire évoluer et progresser, dans la limite de leurs compétences et
   de leur potentiel évidemment. N’oublions pas que les possibilités
   d’évolution et d’épanouissement personnel et professionnel offertes par
   l’entreprise permettent également l’émergence de la fierté
   d’appartenance.

   Faites preuve de leadership, fixez des objectifs clairs et surtout
--

2 – La perception de respect, de reconnaissance et de considération

   Difficile, voire impossible de développer la fierté d’appartenance d’un
   salarié qui ne va pas se sentir concerné, respecté et valorisé par sa
   direction. Le manque de reconnaissance est un véritable problème qui ne
   cesse de croitre depuis une dizaine d’années. Ce phénomène est lié
--
   productivité, tandis que leur mécontentement peut vraiment nuire à la
   qualité de vos services et sur le long terme, à la réputation de votre
   entreprise. Car en effet, si les collaborateurs sont en contact direct
   avec des prospects ou des clients, l’absence de fierté d’appartenance
   peut avoir un impact négatif sur l’implication du salarié dans son
   travail.

   Donc n’oubliez pas, miser sur la qualité du produit et du service c’est
   aussi développer la fierté d’appartenance.

   Pourquoi ?

--
   A SAVOIR QUE :

   La rémunération, la supervision et l’image publique de l’entreprise n’a
   aucun effet direct et n’influence pas la fierté d’appartenance. Ils ne
   vont pas permettre de gagner l’intérêt et la loyauté des
   collaborateurs. Les conditions de travail n’ont également aucun effet
   notoire sur le développement du sentiment d’appartenance.

   En effet, la fierté d’appartenance peut susciter chez le collaborateur
   : motivation, implication, volonté de faire des efforts, productivité
   et surtout efficacité ! Ne négligez pas cela !
   A lire également</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-15">
<text>
   Généalogie

Gay Pride. Pourquoi revendiquer la “fierté”?

   Martin Legros publié le 28 juin 2019 2 min
   Samedi 29 juin aura lieu à Paris la Marche des fiertés (Gay
   Pride). Initiée il y a cinquante ans, elle est célébrée dans de
   nombreux pays. Le mois de juin est même devenu le “mois des fiertés”.
   Mais de quoi est-on fier? D’être ce que l’on est et de l’assumer
   collectivement? De faire de grandes choses? D’Aristote à Axel Honneth,
   parcourons les significations qui se sont attachées à la notion de
   fierté au travers de l’histoire.

Aristote

--
   courage est un juste milieu entre la lâcheté et la témérité ; la
   libéralité, un juste milieu entre  la prodigalité et l’avarice.

   Et la fierté? Aristote l’appelle la magnanimité et la considère comme
   la vertu la plus importante, celle qui « couronne » toutes les autres.
   Elle est le juste milieu entre la vanité et l’humilité: « L’homme
   magnanime est celui qui se juge digne de grandes choses et en est
--

Cicéron

La fierté heureuse, signe d’une grandeur méritée

   Si nous éprouvons de la joie à manifester notre fierté, c’est, pour le
   penseur romain, parce que le vrai bonheur est liée à l’exercice d’une
   vertu, et non pas seulement parce que cela nous procure du plaisir.

--

L’orgueil, vaine gloire qui nous détourne de l’amour de Dieu

   Avec le christianisme, la fierté est associée à l’orgueil, et l’orgueil
   compris comme ce qui nous détourne du bien le plus haut, Dieu. « Se
   complaire en soi-même, c’est se détacher du bien supérieur immuable en
   lequel on devrait se complaire plutôt qu’en soi-même », écrit Augustin.
--

La grandeur d’âme contre la vanité sociale

   La fierté est ambivalente affirme Voltaire dans son Dictionnaire
   philosophique. Elle peut signifier la « vanité hautaine, altière,
   orgueilleuse, dédaigneuse », mais aussi la « hauteur d’une âme noble ».

   Il faut donc faire la part entre la « fierté dans l’extérieur ou dans
   la société » qui est l’expression de l’orgueil, et la grandeur d’âme «
   sans hauteur » «qui est un mérite compatible avec la modestie ».

--

Le vecteur de la reconnaissance

   Manifester sa fierté, c’est le recours que nous avons, lorsque nous
   sommes confrontés à des phénomènes d’humiliation, pour obtenir mieux
   que des réparations, une reconnaissance de ce que nous sommes.

--

   Mathilde Lequin 14 septembre 2012

   La station debout a toujours été un motif de fierté pour l’homme.
   D’Aristote à Hegel, les grands penseurs ont chanté les louanges de la
   bipédie, tandis que des esprits forts ont tourné en dérision cette
   vanité anatomique.
--

    1. Accueil-Le Fil
    2. Articles
    3. Gay Pride. Pourquoi revendiquer la “fierté”?

   Philosophie magazine n°175 - novembre 2023
   Philosophie magazine : les grands philosophes, la préparation au bac</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-16">
<text>     * fièrement
     * fierliage
     * fierte
     * fierté.1
     * fierté.2
     * fierton
     * fiestaux
     * fieux
--
     * Proverbes
     * Contact

« fierté », définition dans le dictionnaire Littré

   fierté

   Définition dans d'autres dictionnaires :
     * TLFi
--
   Fac-simile de l'édition originale du Littré (BNF)
     * Page complète du fac-simile

fierté [1]

   (fièr-té) s. f.
     * 1Qualité d'un courage fier, intrépidité. "Sa fierté l'abandonne, il
       tremble, il cède, il fuit", Boileau, Lutr. V.
       Au plur. "Ah ! si, non plus que vous, je n'ai point le cœur bas,
       Nos fiertés pour cela ne se ressemblent pas", Corneille, Att. III,
       4.
     * 2État d'un esprit fier, qui s'enorgueillit de ses avantages réels
       ou supposés. "Et n'ayant rien de grand qu'une sotte fierté",
       Boileau, Sat. V. "Du nom de fierté noble on orna l'impudence",
       Boileau, ib. XI. "Il avait la fierté de ne vouloir rien tenir de
       moi", Fénelon, Tél. XII. "Tant de jalousies basses et secrètes que
       nous nous dissimulons par fierté", Massillon, Avent, Jugement. "La
       fierté annoncée par l'extérieur est tellement un défaut que les
       petits, qui louent bassement les grands de ce défaut, sont obligés
       de l'adoucir ou plutôt de le relever par une épithète : cette noble
       fierté", Voltaire, Dict. phil. Fierté. "Il [Napoléon] marche
       longtemps tout agité et l'entraîne sur ses pas, sans que sa fierté
       puisse se résoudre à rompre un si pénible silence ; elle va céder
       enfin, mais en menaçant ; il priera qu'on lui demande la paix,
       comme s'il daignait l'accorder", Ségur, Hist. de Nap. VIII, 9.
       Au plur. Fiertés, actes de fierté. "L'humilité corrigera vos
       jugements désavantageux et téméraires, vos railleries et vos
       médisances, vos vaines complaisances et vos fiertés", Bourdaloue,
       Panég. de St Franç. de Paule, 1. "C'était une des fiertés du peuple
       romain de détester, de mépriser, d'humilier les rois", Champagny,
       les Césars, Caligula, VIII, 1.
       La fierté d'un vœu, vœu ambitieux. "La perte de Sylla n'est pas ce
       que je veux ; Rome attire encor moins la fierté de mes vœux",
       Corneille, Sertor. IV, 2.
     * 3Qualité d'une âme fière, hauteur de courage. "Leur retraite [des
       serviteurs de Dieu] en vrais biens se voit toujours féconde, Et
       trouve un plein repos dans la digne fierté Qui leur fait négliger
       le monde", Corneille, Imit. III, 10. "Cette jeune beauté Garde en
       vain un secret que trahit sa fierté", Racine, Iphig. I, 2. "Ses
       malheurs n'avaient point abattu sa fierté", Racine, Ath. II, 5. "La
       fierté de l'âme, sans hauteur, est un mérite compatible avec la
       modestie ; il n'y a que la fierté dans l'air et dans les manières
       qui choque ; elle déplaît dans les rois même", Voltaire, Dict.
       phil. Fierté.
       Fig. Il se dit des choses. "Et réellement, pendant quelques jours
       encore, la fierté d'une contenance inébranlable pouvait seule
       appuyer ses négociations", Ségur, Hist. de Nap. VIII, 11.
     * 4Il se dit de l'état de l'âme d'une femme qui ne se rend pas à
       l'amour. "Contre un amant qui plaît pourquoi tant de fierté ?"
       Racine, Andr. II, 1. "…Oui, je te le confesse, J'affectais à tes
       yeux une fausse fierté, De toi j'attends ma joie et ma félicité, De
       ma sanglante mort ta mort sera suivie", Racine, Bajaz. II, 1. "Les
       poëtes ont eu peut-être plus de raison qu'ils ne pensaient : la
       fierté d'une femme n'est pas simplement la pudeur sévère, l'amour
       du devoir, mais le haut prix que son amour-propre met à sa beauté",
       Voltaire, Dict. phil. Fierté. "Elle appela la fierté à son
       secours ; c'est en amour une grande ressource pour les femmes, et
       qui souvent pour elles fut le supplément de la vertu", Genlis, Mlle
       de Clermont, p. 100, dans POUGENS.
       Au plur. "De maltraiter l'asile et blesser les bontés Où je me suis
       sauvé de toutes vos fiertés", Molière, Femm. sav. IV, 2.
     * 5 Terme de peinture. Fierté de touche, de coloris. Jules Romain
       donnait beaucoup de fierté à ses tableaux. Le dorique grec a de la
       fierté. "On a dit quelquefois la fierté du pinceau pour signifier
       des touches libres et hardies", Voltaire, Dict. phil. Fierté.

HISTORIQUE

   XI^e s. "Puis si chevauchent, Deus ! par si grant fiertet", Ch. de Rol.
   X.

   XII^e s. "Par grant fierté [il] a la broine [cuirasse] endossée", Ronc.
   p. 52. "Plus a fierté Herupe et Bretaigne et Touraine Que touz li
   remenanz que mer cloe et açaine", Sax. XX.

   XIII^e s. "Or poés oïr estrange fierté que li dus de Venise fist, qui
   vieils homs estoit et rien ne veoit", Villehardouin, LXXVIII.

   XIV^e s. "Il se pensa que il convendroit que la fierté des courages
   fust atrempée et amolie par desacoustumance d'armes", Bercheure, f° 13.

   XV^e s. "Et ainsi dura si grant piece cette bataille, que un lyon de
   grande fierté dust estre lassé", Bouciq. I, 14.

ÉTYMOLOGIE

--

SUPPLÉMENT AU DICTIONNAIRE

   1. FIERTÉ.
   5Ajoutez :

   Il se dit aussi au pluriel. "La fresque, dont la grâce, à l'autre
   [peinture à l'huile] préférée, Se conserve un éclat d'éternelle durée,
   Mais dont la promptitude et les brusques fiertés Veulent un grand génie
   à toucher ses beautés", Molière, le Val-de-Grâce.

   Texte dans le domaine public — HTML en CC-BY-SA 3.0 (François Gannaz) —</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-17">
<text>     * Psychologues /
     * Aptitudes sociales /
     * Articles /
     * La fierté, le mal qui blesse les relations

   Prendre un rendez-vous Online

La fierté, le mal qui blesse les relations

   <lt;strong>gt;Article révisé<lt;/strong>gt; par le

--
   est la seule...
   28 NOV. 2019 · Lecture : min.
   Aptitudes sociales
   La fierté, le mal qui blesse les relations

   La fierté peut également être associée à la satisfaction de
   réalisations des autres, mais elle peut aussi causer plus de dégâts que
   de bénéfices dans la mesure où, bien qu’il semble positif de chercher à
   se démarquer dans une activité ou à obtenir un prix important, il
--
   réalisation, qui est une façon de dire aux autres "regarde-moi, combien
   je suis important".

   Il y a dans la fierté le besoin de montrer à quel point nous sommes
   formidables, intelligents, bien habillés et importants.
     * Mais ... que se passe-t-il lorsqu'un couple se bat constamment et
       qu'aucun ne veut céder ?
--
   conviction d'être parfait, voire de se sentir indispensable.

   Quand quelqu'un dit "je suis comme ça et je ne vais pas changer", c'est
   par fierté. Il est vrai que nous avons une essence et une personnalité
   définies et que nous ne pouvons pas les changer, mais nous pouvons
   reconnaître nos erreurs.

--
   autres, mais il est plus difficile de reconnaître les siennes et encore
   plus difficile d’accepter que nous ayons tort.

Comment puis-je doser ma fierté ?

     * Il est important de savoir comment identifier quand vous pouvez
       être fier.e et quand vous ne le pouvez pas ;
     * Lorsque la fierté malsaine s'installe, il est important de faire
       preuve de souplesse ;
     * Apprenez à identifier l'émotion derrière la fierté ;
     * Rappelez-vous que la fierté est utile, vous ne voulez pas vivre
       sans elle, il suffit d'apprendre à reconnaître ce qui se cache
       derrière la fierté.

   Si vous avez eu des problèmes avec votre partenaire ou dans d'autres
   relations en raison de votre fierté, il est important de suivre une
   thérapie pour apprendre à reconnaître ces émotions et à les diriger.

   Photos : Shutterstock</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-18">
<text>
Dictionnaire de l’Académie française, huitième édition (1932-1935)

   FIERTÉ. n. f.
   Caractère de celui qui est fier, de ce qui est fier. Il est sans
   fierté. Il a une noble fierté. C'est un homme plein de fierté. La
   fierté des manières, du maintien, du regard. Parler avec fierté. La
   fierté d'un discours, d'une réponse. Il en conçoit une juste fierté.
   Fierté d'âme, de caractère. En termes de Peinture, Fierté de touche, de
   pinceau.

Littré (1872-1877)
--

     *

     Il n'est pas d'amour sans fierté, et par conséquent sans témoin.
     Claude Aveline — Et tout le reste n'est rien, Mercure de France
     *

     Il est beau de s'élever au-dessus de la fierté. Encore faut-il
     l'atteindre. Georges Bernanos — Journal d'un curé de campagne, Plon
     *

     De tous les sentiments, le plus difficile à feindre c'est la fierté.
     Gaston, duc de Lévis — Maximes et réflexions sur divers sujets

Traductions du mot « fierte »</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-19">
<text>   des millions d'enfants, et faites un don.
   Association loi 1901, jusqu'à 66 % de déduction fiscale.

Fierté

   Une page de Vikidia, l’encyclopédie junior
   Aller à la navigation Aller à la recherche
--

   Une enfant fière de montrer le poisson qu'elle a pêché.

   La fierté est une forme de confiance en soi, un état d'esprit dans
   lequel se trouve une personne qui pense connaître ses capacités et les
   estime bonnes. Une personne fière pourra paraître prétentieuse car elle
   déclarera facilement être capable de faire de grandes choses, mais ne
   se compare pas nécessairement aux autres.

   La différence entre fierté et orgueil est petite. On pourrait dire que
   la fierté, c'est la confiance dans le fait qu'on peut faire les choses
   bien ; tandis que l'orgueil c'est la confiance dans le fait qu'on peut
   faire les choses mieux que les autres.

--

   Marie-Agnès est fière de ce qu'elle fait et toute remise en cause peut
   la toucher dans l'estime qu'elle a de soi (d'où l'expression «blessée
   dans sa fierté»).

   Si elle était orgueilleuse, elle serait fière de ce qu'elle fait, mais
   en plus chercherait la comparaison avec d'autres (dans ce sens, on peut
--
   société.

   Récupérée de
   « http://fr.vikidia.org/w/index.php?title=Fierté&amp;oldid=1049383 »
   Catégorie :
     * État d'esprit</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-2">
<text>
   [ ] Basculer la table des matières

Fierté

   [ ] 31 langues
     * العربية
--

   Vous pouvez partager vos connaissances en l’améliorant (comment ?)
   selon les recommandations des projets correspondants.
   [170px-Yuta_ITO.jpg] Fierté d'un homme d'affaires
   japonais.[170px-BULTACO_MOTORCYCLE.jpg] Fierté d'un motard tanzanien.

   Appartenant au même champ lexical que l’orgueil, la fierté a comme lui
   plusieurs définitions qui se recoupent d’ailleurs (les deux mots étant
   pratiquement interchangeables), et qui s'entendent selon le contexte.
   Il peut s'agir :
     * du caractère de quelqu'un qui se croit supérieur aux autres ;
       morgue, arrogance, hauteur. Du sentiment exagéré de sa propre
       valeur : être fier comme un coq, ou un paon (le mot fierté pouvant
       ici s'entendre comme synonyme de vanité dans l'une de ses
       définitions les plus courantes, à savoir l'étalage public de
       l'estime de soi),
     * de l'indépendance de caractère, de l'orgueil, ou du sentiment de
       son honneur qu'une personne peut nourrir. Il s'agit alors de
       l'amour propre d'une personne, c'est ce sens qui se trouve mobilisé
       dans l'expression « Un peu de fierté bon sang », ou « N'avez-vous
       donc aucun orgueil »... Il est très important de noter qu'il s'agit
       d'un sentiment intérieur, au contraire de la vanité qui cherche à
       obtenir la reconnaissance d'autrui ; la fierté (ou l'orgueil),
       quant à elle est une image de soi positive, que l'on cherche à
       maintenir sans se positionner par rapport à autrui. Dans l'idéal,
       cela se manifeste par la volonté d'accomplissement, de dépassement,
       et par le refus d'accomplir des actes que l'on estime de nature à
       nuire à cette image positive que nous avons de nous-mêmes.

   La fierté est souvent mise en avant dans le milieu du sport, où un
   sportif désire par-dessus tout surpasser ses capacités pour devenir
   meilleur.

--
Annexes[modifier | modifier le code]

   Sur les autres projets Wikimedia :
     * Fierté, sur Wikimedia Commons

Bibliographie[modifier | modifier le code]

     * Marc Fraysse, La fierté d'être Français, Alpharès, Paris, 2013, 158
       p. (ISBN 978-2-8483-9010-9)

Liens externes[modifier | modifier le code]
--
     * Excitation
     * Extase
     * Férocité
     * Fierté
     * Frisson
     * Frustration
     * Fureur
--
     * icône décorative Portail de la psychologie

   Ce document provient de
   « https://fr.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fierté&amp;oldid=201711236 ».
   Catégorie :
     * Émotion</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-20">
<text>   MANUELS
   CORRECTEUR

FIERTÉ, nom

   règle-cordial
   ____________________
   search

Définition de fierté

   nom féminin singulier
    1. Qualité d'une personne fière, digne et noble.
    2. Sentiment élevé de sa propre valeur, prétention.

Synonymes de fierté

     * dédain, orgueil, condescendance, mépris, arrogance, insolence,
       impertinence, familiarité, gloriole, suffisance, dérision
     * orgueil, arrogance, condescendance, satisfaction, dédain, dignité,
       amour-propre, vanité, familiarité, gloriole

Contraires de fierté

     * humilité, admiration, estime, déférence
     * modestie, courtoisie, déférence

Exemples d'utilisation de fierté

   air de fierté
   "L'air de fierté qu'il avait trouvé à cette pauvre fille lui faisait
   craindre, sinon un refus, du moins un mouvement de vanité blessée."
   (Alfred de Musset 1837-1853 "Nouvelles et contes")
   brin de fierté
   "Et pas un brin de fierté pour le comprendre." (Léon Tolstoï 1864-1869
   "Guerre et paix")
   mouvement de fierté
   "Elle s'élança vers le portail par un mouvement de fierté blessée et de
   dédain, mais elle déploya dans sa démarche une noblesse et un désespoir
   qui changèrent toutes les idées du marquis, à qui il en coûtait trop de
   renoncer à ses désirs pour qu'il ne fût pas imprudent et crédule."
   (Honoré de Balzac 1829 "Les Chouans, ou la Bretagne en 1799")
   mélange de fierté
   "Beaucoup de soldats, d'officiers comme moi déjà, mais tous avec à leur
   bras une mère, une femme, qui les regardait avec un indicible mélange
   de fierté et d'émotion." (Pierre Benoît 1918 "Koenigsmark")
   objet de fierté
   "autrefois objet de fierté, enraciné dans des traditions et fort de
   tout un héritage technique et politique, le groupe ouvrier, si tant est
   qu'il existe encore en tant que tel, est voué à la démoralisation, à la
   dévalorisation et à la désillusion politique, qui s'exprime dans la
   crise du militantisme ou, pire, dans le raie liement désespéré aux
   thèses de l'extrémisme fasciste ide." (Pierre Bourdieu 1998
   "Contre-feux")
   pointe de fierté
   "Et d'ailleurs, ajouta-t-elle avec une pointe de fierté, ne sommes-nous
   pas tous logés un peu à la même enseigne?" (René Boylesve 1889
   "Mademoiselle Cloque")
   question de fierté
   "Il y avait une question de fierté." (AFP 1997 "Dépêches de l'AFP,
   novembre 1997")
   sentiment de fierté
   "Un sentiment de fierté lui fait toujours croire que ces circonstances
   n'ajoutent et n'ôtent rien à son mérite personnel." (Anne-Louise
   Germaine Necker de Staël-Holstein, dite Madame de Staël 1817
   "Considérations sur les principaux événements de la Révolution
   française")
   sourire de fierté
   "Je les subirai s'il le faut, repartit l'abbé avec un imperceptible
   sourire de fierté et un maintien si parfaitement noble que toutes les
   femmes s'émurent." (George Sand 1867 "Mauprat")
   sujet de fierté
   "Il se reprochait d'être trop jeune, d'avoir été connu trop malheureux
   et trop enfant, d'avoir donné trop de peine et d'ennui à cette pauvre
   femme, de ne lui être point un sujet de fierté, mais de souci et de
   compassion." (George Sand 1850 "François le Champi")
   certaine fierté
   "Elle accentuait même cette subordination, non sans une certaine
   fierté." (Alfred Adler 1927 "Connaissance de l'homme")
   grande fierté
   "au milieu de cette épreuve, sa grande fierté lui vint en aide et
   l'empêcha de trahir le secret de son chagrin." (Mark Twain 1907 "Plus
   fort que Sherlock Holmès")
   immense fierté
   "Une immense fierté lui remontait au coeur." (Émile Zola 1872 "La
   Curée")
   légitime fierté
   "mais tandis qu'il parlait, la lune éclaira son visage, et la fille
   prit plaisir à le considérer, tant il respirait une aménité de
   caractère naïve et désuète, relevée toutefois d'une certaine hauteur,
   provenant, eût-on dit, d'une légitime fierté." (Robert Louis Stevenson
   1885 "L'Étrange cas du Dr Jekyll et de Mr Hyde")
   noble fierté
   "Elle avait de la fierté, une noble fierté, et elle ne pouvait
   supporter que ce qu'elle considérait comme au-dessus de tout fût exposé
   à la moquerie sous ses propres yeux." (Fedor Mikhaïlovitch Dostoïevski
   1861 "Humiliés et offensés")
   fierté blessée
   "Elle s'élança vers le portail par un mouvement de fierté blessée et de
   dédain, mais elle déploya dans sa démarche une noblesse et un désespoir
   qui changèrent toutes les idées du marquis, à qui il en coûtait trop de
   renoncer à ses désirs pour qu'il ne fût pas imprudent et crédule."
   (Honoré de Balzac 1829 "Les Chouans, ou la Bretagne en 1799")
   fierté nationale
   "Le seul lien qui unisse des peuples presque nomades, et dont les
   maisons ressemblent à des tentes de bois établies dans la plaine, c'est
   le respect pour le monarque, et la fierté nationale." (Anne-Louise
   Germaine Necker de Staël-Holstein, dite Madame de Staël 1817
   "Considérations sur les principaux événements de la Révolution
   française")
   fierté naturelle
   "mais j'admirais toujours avec quelle pureté d'intention et quelle
   finesse de tact elle savait éliminer tacitement des discussions où
   s'élaborait la doctrine des adeptes secondaires, tout ce qui révoltait
   ses instincts nobles et pudiques, pour conclure souvent à priori, des
   secrètes élucubrations des maîtres, ce qui répondait à sa fierté
   naturelle, à sa droiture et à son amour de la justice." (George Sand
   1852 "Horace")
   fierté d'une nation
   "fierté d'une nation." (Hansard 1996-2005 "Débats du parlement
   canadien")
   fierté de la langue
   "La fierté de la langue était pour Laurendeau le préalable au réveil de
   la nation." (Denis Monière 1983 "André Laurendeau et le destin d'un
   peuple")
   fierté de son caractère
   "Les perpétuelles contradictions de l'amour et de la religion d'Atala,
   l'abandon de sa tendresse et la chasteté de ses moeurs, la fierté de
   son caractère et sa profonde sensibilité, l'élévation de son âme dans
   les grandes choses, sa susceptibilité dans les petites, tout en faisait
   pour moi un être incompréhensible." (François-René de Chateaubriand
   1801 "Atala")
   fierté de son père
   "on l'avait nommée devant moi, et plus tard j'entendis rendre un juste
   hommage à la noble et austère fierté de son père." (Eugène Sue 1845
   "Paula Monti")

Mots proches de fierté

   orgueil
   ____________________</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-21">
<text>   En cliquant sur "Je m'inscris"
   j'accepte les CGU de booknode

Fierté - La série

     * Auteur :
     * Elle Kennedy
--

   [transparent-22x36.png]

#1 Fierté, Tome 1 : En mâle de toi

   Jamie n’a jamais compris pourquoi Wes, son meilleur pote, a cessé de
   donner signe de vie l’année de leurs dix-sept ans, après cette soirée à
--

   [transparent-22x36.png]

#2 Fierté, Tome 2 : Coming out

   Jamie et Wes sont amoureux fous. Mais dans le milieu très macho du
   hockey, Wes ne se résout pas à vivre au grand jour son homosexualité et
--

   [transparent-22x36.png]

#3 Fierté, Tome 2.5 : Epic short story

   Jamie and Wes are having a blast living and working in Toronto. Until a
   scout for another team swoops in to make one of them an offer that
--

     * [sa.php?s=f&amp;amp;w=100&amp;amp;h=100]
       2024-01-05T21:05:00+01:00 - Sophie72
       Fierté, Tome 2 : Coming out Liste de diamant
     * [sa.php?idstd=14&amp;amp;w=100&amp;amp;h=100]
       2024-01-05T19:30:50+01:00 - Ae-Ris
       Fierté, Tome 2 : Coming out Ma PAL(pile à lire)
     * [sa.php?idperso=5311714&amp;amp;w=100&amp;amp;h=100]
       2024-01-01T17:36:12+01:00 - CamiBookworm
       Fierté, Tome 2 : Coming out Liste de bronze
     * [sa.php?s=f&amp;amp;w=100&amp;amp;h=100]
       2024-01-01T11:11:16+01:00 - Crapette
       Fierté, Tome 2 : Coming out Liste d'argent
     * [sa.php?s=f&amp;amp;w=100&amp;amp;h=100]
       2023-12-31T21:06:26+01:00 - manonpage
       Fierté, Tome 1 : En mâle de toi Mes envies
     * [sa.php?idperso=651107&amp;amp;w=100&amp;amp;h=100]
       2023-12-30T18:47:29+01:00 - F----------------
       Fierté, Tome 1 : En mâle de toi Liste d'argent
     * [sa.php?idperso=5229210&amp;amp;w=100&amp;amp;h=100]
       2023-12-29T15:28:29+01:00 - Benni
       Fierté, Tome 1 : En mâle de toi Ma PAL(pile à lire)
     __________________________________________________________________

Séries du même auteur</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-22">
<text>     * Menu
     * Pied de page

   La fierté
     * (BUTTON) Menu
     * (BUTTON) Radios
          +
--
     * Musique
     * Vie quotidienne

La fierté

   Dimanche 28 juillet 2013
   (BUTTON)
--
     * France Inter
     * Podcasts
     * La fabrique des émotions
     * La fierté

   pixel
   La radio</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-23">
<text>   #Collectif Fiertés en Lutte » Flux Collectif Fiertés en Lutte » Flux
   des commentaires Collectif Fiertés en Lutte » Flux iCal alternate
   alternate alternate alternate

   Aller au contenu

   Collectif Fiertés en Lutte

   Menu

--
     * Qui sommes nous ?
          + Notre Charte
          + Aide aux victimes
     * Marche des Fiertés
          + Marche des Fiertés 2023
          + Contribuer à la Marche
     * Quinzaine des Fiertés
     * Nous contacter

   Menu
--
     * Qui sommes nous ?
          + Notre Charte
          + Aide aux victimes
     * Marche des Fiertés
          + Marche des Fiertés 2023
          + Contribuer à la Marche
     * Quinzaine des Fiertés
     * Nous contacter

Bienvenue sur le site du CFL !

   Vous êtes sur le site du Collectif Fiertés en Lutte (CFL pour les gens
   qui en ont marre de le répéter). L’association organise la Marche des
   Fiertés de Lyon depuis novembre 2019. L’objectif est de proposer une
   Marche inclusive et revendicative pour nos communautés !

   Nous organisons aussi la Quinzaine des Fiertés. Il s’agit de deux
   semaines, autour de la Marche, pendant lesquels nous créons des espaces
   autour de nos cultures et de nos arts. Rassemblons-nous lors de moments
   festifs et revendicatifs !
--

Bienvenue sur le site du CFL !

   Vous êtes sur le site du Collectif des Fiertés en Luttes (CFL pour les
   gens qui en ont marre de le répéter), nous sommes l’association qui
   organise la Marche des Fiertés de Lyon depuis Novembre 2019. Nous avons
   à cœur de proposer une marche inclusive et forte de revendications pour
   nos communautés. Nous organisons aussi la Quinzaine des fiertés qui
   encadre la manifestation afin de créer des espaces autour de nos
   cultures et de nos arts pour nous permettre de nous rassembler lors de
   moments festifs et revendicatifs.
--
   puissions continuer nos actions !

   C’est grâce à toi que nous pourrons continuer à organiser la Quinzaine
   et la Marche de Fiertés à Lyon et que nous continuerons à lutter pour
   nos droits ! On compte sur toi !

   IFRAME:
--
   ctes/marche-des-fiertes-2023/widget

     * Accueil
     * Marche des Fiertés
     * Nous contacter
     * Mentions légales</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-24">
<text>     * Voir son historique
     * Retourner à l’accueil

Fierté

   « Fierté » défini et expliqué aux enfants par les enfants.
   Aller à : navigation, rechercher

fierté:nom féminin, singulier

   Sentiment de satisfaction qui est éprouvé quand on a fait quelque chose
   de bien. Par exemple, dans la phrase: "Jean est empli de fierté car il
   a eu la note maximale à son examen de science.", Jean éprouve de la
   satisfaction face à son résultat. En d'autres mots, il est content de
   ce qu'il a fait.</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-26">
<text>   ( ) Thème sombre
   ( ) Système Utilise les paramètres système

#MarcheRépublicaine : "quelle fierté d’être Français !"

   Ce contenu a été publié sous le gouvernement du Premier ministre,
   Manuel Valls.
--
   Manuel Valls
   Invité de l'émission de Jean-Jacques Bourdin sur RMC/BFMTV, Manuel
   Valls est revenu lundi matin sur "ce moment inouï, magnifique" et la
   "fierté, hier, d’être Français dans cette manifestation, d’abord
   silencieuse". Il a également appelé à ne "pas baisser la garde, il faut
   être vigilant, parce que nous savons que la menace est évidemment
   toujours présente".</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-27">
<text>
     * Accueil
     * Actualités
     * Carrières * Qu’est-ce que la fierté ?

Actualités

Intermines
Carrières * Qu’est-ce que la fierté ?

   18 octobre 2023 Actualités
   Vue 1389 fois
--
   Même si cela a mal été fait, nous sommes en mesure, devenus adultes, de
   n’en référer qu’à nous-mêmes pour juger de notre conduite.

   La fierté est alors le combustible qui alimente la fabrique permanente
   de cette estime de soi, chaque fois que nous considérons que nos actes
   sont parfaitement alignés sur nos aspirations et nos valeurs, sur le
   but qu’on vise et sur l’attente de ceux qui comptent pour nous.
--
   travailler.
   Pour autant l’estime de soi n’est pas un circuit clos. C’est plutôt une
   économie circulaire approvisionnée par tout ce qui déclenche le
   sentiment galvanisant de fierté et créant de la performance.

   L’entreprise a-t-elle bien identifié cette ressource et la
   prodigue-t-elle autant qu’il le faudrait ?
--
   va plus loin ». Dans leur team building, les managers savent
   transformer leur petite communauté d’objectifs en une communauté de
   valeurs qui se serre les coudes pour surmonter les difficultés puis
   partage la fierté de ses réussites collectives.

   Reste la fierté de ce qu’on l’on a soi-même accompli. C’est souvent là
   que le bât blesse en entreprise. Certes, nul n’y fait rien tout seul.
   Pour autant, il conviendrait de mieux rendre à César ce qui revient à
   César, en reconnaissant ce que l’objectif atteint doit à chacun. Car il
   n’y a aucun narcissisme infantile dans l’attitude de celui qui,
   ressentant la fierté d’avoir fait et bien fait, s’étonne à juste titre
   de n’en avoir aucun écho de la part de sa hiérarchie…

   Comment nourrir la fierté contributive de chaque collaborateur ?
   Il va de soi que féliciter ponctuellement un collaborateur en
   tête-à-tête et plus encore publiquement valide la fierté qu’il ressent.
   En créant son « Hall of fame » qui affiche ses champions médaillés sur
   son enceinte comme sur son site, non seulement l’INSEP leur rend
   hommage mais elle stimule la motivation de tous, athlètes confirmés
   comme jeunes recrues, tout en justifiant sa propre existence.

   Mais il existe d’autres moyens de provoquer la fierté. Le rituel
   entretien annuel se doit de ménager une meilleure place à ce dont, dans
   l’année écoulée, le collaborateur a lieu d’être fier.

--
   fait de tel bon boulot précédemment si bien effectué, dont on saura
   détailler la teneur.

   Fierté contributive plutôt que fierté concurrentielle
   De même que l’authentique fierté se justifie par une action bien menée
   et non pas par un excès d’orgueil quant à la valeur intangible de sa
   propre personne (ce qui revient alors à « faire le fier »), de même on
   peut s’interroger sur certaines pratiques managériales qui, en
--
   dévoyer une saine émulation entre collègues en rivalité malsaine basée
   sur la vanité.

   La fierté motive bien mieux quand elle est contributive que quand elle
   est concurrentielle. Parce qu’elle élève celui qui la ressent et que
   l’on gratifie, la fierté d’avoir fait son devoir, accompli sa mission,
   servi la cause commune, favorise l’engagement, la fierté d’appartenance
   à un groupe social et en cascade l’amélioration de la marque employeur.

   Gardons à l’esprit que le burn-out, comme toutes formes de dépression,
   se manifeste par la baisse conjuguée de la motivation, de l’énergie et
   de l’estime de soi. En suscitant la fierté du collaborateur ou en
   confirmant celle qu’il ressent déjà par son propre examen de
   conscience, on crée de salutaires digues contre ce mal, de meilleurs
   ambassadeurs de l’organisation et de meilleures conditions de travail.

   Et vous, quand ressentez-vous cette fierté d’être utile dans un travail
   qui a du sens, cette fierté qui donne du plaisir et du désir à la tâche
   ? L’accueillez-vous et la suscitez-vous alors pleinement parce que vous
   savez que, loin de traduire une quelconque arrogance, elle est une des
   salutaires expressions de votre propre respect de vous-même, un facteur
--


   Pour aller plus loin ...
   Fierté ! Pourquoi faire de la culture d’entreprise un objectif
   stratégique, de Peter s’Jongers, La Charte, 2020.
   La fierté. Après l’amour, c’est probablement le sentiment le plus beau
   dans le monde C’est quelque chose que nous recherchons activement,
   aussi dans notre environnement de travail. Néanmoins, en réalité, cette
   « fierté » ne fait pas partie du quotidien au travail. Ainsi, plus de
   70 % des employés vont au travail sans enthousiasme. Mais comment alors
   motiver et engager vos employés ? Ce livre traite d’une culture
   d’entreprise qui est plus qu’une simple campagne unique. D’une culture</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-28">
<text>
     Nos actualités

     Big 9 : la fierté au cœur du grand rassemblement business de
   Bpifrance

Big 9 : la fierté au cœur du grand rassemblement business de Bpifrance

   Big, le plus grand rassemblement business d’Europe, revient le 5
   octobre 2023 à l’Accor Arena. À l'occasion de cette neuvième édition
   placée sous le signe de la fierté, Bpifrance invite tous les
   entrepreneurs de France à venir s’inspirer, se rencontrer et découvrir
   les grandes tendances du monde de demain.

--
   65 000. C’est le nombre de participants présents lors de la 8e édition
   de Big en 2022. Cette année, le plus grand rendez-vous business
   d’Europe revient le 5 octobre à l’Accor Arena de Paris avec une édition
   placée sous le signe de la fierté. Pour ce 9e épisode de Big, Bpifrance
   vous invite à venir découvrir les grands enjeux et tendances du monde
   de demain avec plus de 1000 intervenants, dont 150 top speakers.

--
   démonstrations expérientielles autour des enjeux de demain dans la
   coursive de l’Accor Arena Paris.

Après la métamorphose, place à la fierté pour Bpifrance

   Cette année, Bpifrance a désigné le thème de la fierté comme fil
   conducteur de cette 9ème édition qui s’annonce encore une fois très
   riche. Un thème auquel tient particulièrement le directeur général de
   la Banque Publique d’Investissement (BPI), Nicolas Dufourcq. « La
   fierté, l’estime de soi et, par extension, du groupe auquel on
   appartient. C'est la seule solution, dirait le moraliste, pour se
   supporter. La fierté, c'est important ! »  Outre sa définition «
   classique », le PDG de Bpifrance met en avant l’importance de la fierté
   nationale. « Il est important de vivre dans un pays dont on est fier,
   il est important d'avoir des victoires à son actif. Renoncer à la
   fierté, c'est à la fois renoncer à la sagesse, et renoncer à la
   puissance. Voilà pourquoi le thème de cette année est la fierté. Oui,
   Cocorico ! »

   Pour évoquer le thème de cette 9ème édition de Big, de nombreux top
--
       l’événement
     * Le Festival des Innos sous le thème des enjeux de demain
     * Le salon deeptech
     * Le salon fierté
     * L’Echo Avenir : des espaces de conférences pour approfondir des
       sujets concrets : création d’entreprise, financement de la
       croissance, transformation digitale, TEE, intelligence</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-29">
<text>
   [INS: :INS]

Définition fierté

   Citations Synonymes Définition
   Fierté (Nom commun)
   [fjɛʁ.te] / Féminin
     * Caractère de celui qui est fier, de celle qui est fière, de ce qui
       est fier.

   [INS: :INS]

   Dictionnaire >gt; Définition >gt; fierte / fierté
   Navigation alphabétique | Informations &amp; définitions | Annuaire de
   dictionnaires
   Copyright © Dictionnaire de définitions et synonymes Tous droits</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-3">
<text>
Entrez une forme

   fierté__________________________________________ Chercher
   options d'affichage                              catégorie : [toutes______]
     * FIERTÉ, subst. fém.

   FIERTÉ, subst. fém.
   I.− Vieux
   A.− Rare. [À propos d'un animal] Caractère d'un animal fier,
   difficilement apprivoisable. Synon. sauvagerie.Quant à l'aigle [décrit
   par Buffon], il est manqué : il n'est dessiné ni avec une vigueur assez
   mâle, ni avec une assez sauvage fierté (Chênedollé, Journal,1822, p.
   114).
   − En partic., MAN. Qualité d'un cheval qui réagit promptement aux
   sollicitations. Léonide ne se lassait pas d'admirer la fougue
   obéissante, la fierté docile des chevaux, la légèreté de la calèche
   (Gozlan, Notaire,1836, p. 108).
   B.− P. anal. [À propos d'une pers.] Caractère rude et impitoyable.
   Synon. barbarie, cruauté, férocité.Leur douleur [des Océanides], en un
   chant d'une fierté sauvage, S'exhale avec des cris de haine (Banville,
   Exilés,1874, p. 10).Les Pingouins ont perdu cette fierté cruelle et
   sanguinaire qui donnait autrefois à leurs révolutions une grandeur
   tragique (France, Île ping.,1908, p. 323).
   II.− Usuel. [À propos d'une pers.]
   A.− Laudatif
   1. Souci de sa dignité, respect de soi-même. Fierté de l'âme, du
   caractère. Synon. amour-propre, dignité, noblesse.Madame [la mère de
   Napoléon] avait un grand caractère, de la force d'âme, beaucoup
   d'élévation et de fierté (Las Cases, Mémor. Ste-Hélène,t. 1, 1823, p.
   75).Je l'avais cependant peinte [une amie, Blanche Passy] avec la
   fierté, la noblesse, l'indépendance de son caractère (Goncourt,
   Journal,1896, p. 954).Les forces de la vie qui font déchoir, qui
   attaquent la noblesse d'un être, sa fierté (Romains, Hommes bonne
   vol.,1939, p. 35):
   1. La liaison avait duré quelque temps et, par noblesse de cœur, par
   fierté, pour ne pas être une prostituée, bien qu'il la secourût à
   peine, elle s'était efforcée consciencieusement d'aimer ce garçon dont
   elle sentait si bien l'égoïsme et la prétentieuse médiocrité. Bloy,
   Femme pauvre,1897, p. 35.
   − P. méton., au plur. Actes manifestant un tel souci. Ses familiarités
   étaient capricieusement démenties par les fiertés que lui inspiraient
   ses scrupules (Balzac, Illus. perdues,1843, p. 59).Elle (...) s'offre à
   lui, avec un oubli absolu de toutes les fiertés, de toutes les réserves
   d'une honnête femme (A. Daudet, Crit. dram.,1897, p. 56).
   2. Satisfaction d'amour-propre fondée. Synon. contentement, orgueil.Son
   fils Ollivier, dont elle parlait avec fierté, était élève à l'école de
   marine (Zola, Nana,1880, p. 1174).Les sept esclaves de Bacchis, toutes
   de haute taille et admirablement stylées, étaient pour elle un tel
   sujet de fierté qu'elle ne sortait pas sans les avoir à sa suite
   (Louÿs, Aphrodite,1896, p. 126).Le vieux Claude − l'ancien cocher − et
   le vieux Constant, me regardaient avec fierté (Gyp, Souv. pte
   fille,1927, p. 86).
   − Fierté de. [Suivi d'un subst. ou d'un inf.] Cette fierté d'être
   libre, elle [Venise] la conserva toujours (Barrès, Homme libre,1889, p.
   185).Il jouissait de sa force et de son adolescence. Il avait la fierté
   d'être un homme. Il souriait à son bonheur (Rolland, J.-Chr.,Adolesc.,
   1905, p. 328).J'ai senti quelque fierté de l'amitié de cet homme auprès
   de qui les autres ressemblent à des domestiques (Bloy, Journal,1906, p.
   293):
   2. Dans ses rares heures de contentement, il avait la fierté de ces
   quelques études, les seules dont il fût satisfait, celles qui
   annonçaient un grand peintre, doué admirablement, entravé par des
   impuissances soudaines et inexpliquées. Zola, Œuvre,1886, p. 44.
   ♦ En partic. Fierté de soi(-même). J'ai une certaine fierté de moi :
   depuis quelque temps, il s'est développé en moi un sens divinatoire
   (Goncourt, Journal,1885, p. 412).Plus on rencontre de difficultés dans
   la vie, plus on a en soi de fierté et de contentement de soi-même (T.
   Bernard, M. Codomat,1907, p. 187).Cet orgueil, cette fierté de
   soi-même, cette conscience de sa dignité d'homme (Van der Meersch,
   Invas. 14,1935, p. 93).
   − P. méton. Objet de fierté. J'avais de lui [Jalicourt, un professeur
   d'université] cinq lettres; ma fierté, un trésor; cinq lettres, dont
   trois, même quatre, sont je le crois encore aujourd'hui, admirables
   (Martin du G., Thib.,Sorell., 1928, p. 1232).La seule fierté de notre
   boutique, c'était le guéridon du milieu, un Louis XV, le seul vraiment
   qu'on était sûr (Céline, Mort à crédit,1936, p. 98).
   − Loc. Mettre sa fierté à + inf. Mettre son point d'honneur à (faire
   quelque chose), s'enorgueillir de (faire quelque chose). Il met plutôt
   sa fierté à proclamer que son génie doit tout à la nature, et qu'il la
   sert (Rolland, Beeth.,t. 1, 1937, p. 21).
   3. P. ext., B.-A. Qualité d'un artiste (p. méton., d'une œuvre) qui
   manifeste par sa hardiesse ou son ampleur une grande vigueur créatrice.
   Fierté de composition, de touche. Arrivés à ce point [avoir un style
   rigoureux], ce que les artistes perdent en vérité littérale, ils le
   regagnent bien en indépendance et en fierté (Delacroix, Journal,1850,
   p. 333).Une portière soulevée par Bramante dans la Sixtine lui suffit
   [à Raphaël] pour ajouter à sa grâce naturelle la fierté et la vigueur
   de Michel-Ange (Gautier, Guide Louvre,1872, p. 30).
   − Spéc., ARCHIT. Force et solidité dans la construction d'un édifice.
   La fierté, l'ostentation de force de la construction toscane ne
   pouvaient plaire chez nous [au XVII^esiècle] (Hourticq, Hist. art,Fr.,
   1914, p. 182).
   B.− Péj. Défaut d'une personne qui affiche une supériorité illusoire,
   qui affecte des airs hautains et méprisants. Synon. arrogance,
   dédain.Malhabile à se faire aimer, ou plutôt ne le cherchant guère, par
   misanthropie, dédain, fierté (Gide, Journal,1927, p. 850).Les deux
   jeunes dames, un peu raidies, se tenaient à l'écart, non par fierté,
   comme le croyait Joséfa, mais parce qu'elles hésitaient sur l'attitude
   à prendre (Mauriac, Myst. Frontenac,1933, p. 254):
   3. D'abord, il avait éprouvé quelque gêne, car il sentait bien qu'elle
   était au-dessus de lui, presque une dame, tandis qu'il n'avait jamais
   été qu'un paysan et qu'un soldat. À peine savait-il lire et écrire.
   Puis, il s'était rassuré un peu, en voyant qu'elle le traitait sans
   fierté, comme son égal, ce qui l'avait enhardi à se montrer ce qu'il
   était, intelligent à sa manière, à force de tranquille raison. Zola,
   Débâcle,1892, p. 491.
   Prononc. et Orth. : [fjε ʀte]. Ds Ac. 1694-1932. Étymol. et Hist. 1.
   Fin xi^es. fiertet « hardiesse, courage, intrépidité » (Roland, éd. J.
   Bédier, 2152); 2. ca 1165 fierté « caractère de celui qui se croit
   supérieur aux autres » (B. de Sainte-Maure, Troie, éd. L. Constans,
   5114); 3. 1651 « sentiment élevé de la dignité, de l'honneur »
   (Corneille, Imitation de Jésus-Christ, 1224 ds Œuvres, éd. Ch.
   Marty-Laveaux, t. 8, p. 318). Dér. de fier* d'apr. le lat. class.
   feritas, -atis « mœurs sauvages, barbarie, cruauté ». Fréq. abs.
   littér. : 1 758. Fréq. rel. littér. : xix^es. : a) 2 426, b) 2 627;
   xx^es. : a) 2 077, b) 2 748. Bbg. Burgess (G.-S.). Orgueil and fierté
   in twelfth-century French. Z. rom. Philol. 1973, t. 89, pp. 103-122. −
   Venck. 1975, pp. 212-222.
   Valid XHTML 1.0 Strict Valid Cascading Style Sheet</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-30">
<text>          + Tous les rapports
          + Tous les podcasts

La fierté est un moment de réflexion et de célébration

   Le mois de juin est à nos portes, ce qui signifie que c’est le temps de
   la piscine, des vacances et des barbecues dans l’arrière-cour. C’est
   aussi la Fierté, qui consiste à célébrer les réalisations de la
   communauté LGBTQ+ en matière d’égalité et de visibilité.

   La Fierté, comme tout mois historique et festif, consiste à observer et
   à reconnaître le combat, la lutte et les progrès d’un groupe
   minoritaire historiquement opprimé.

--
   est précisément ce que l’Institut McCain s’efforce de réaliser par
   l’intermédiaire de son réseau de praticiens de la prévention.

   Le mois de juin est riche en manifestations spectaculaires de fierté
   dans tous les États-Unis, et des millions de personnes les célèbrent
   chaque année. Il est important de réfléchir à ce droit qui est un
   véritable privilège.
--
   Pour être clair, il y a encore des portes à enfoncer et des plafonds de
   verre à briser. Mais ce mois-ci, nous ferons la fête.

   Le mois des fiertés est l’occasion de reconnaître les progrès accomplis
   – et les luttes menées – pour faire progresser l’égalité et le droit
   d’exister publiquement et pacifiquement.</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-31">
<text>
   [logo-psychomedia-gabriola-381-81.png]

Comment la fierté constitue un mécanisme psychologique d'adaptation sociale

   Psychomédia
   Publié le 12 août 2018
   [39030-65904-image]

   Des chercheurs en psychologie évolutionniste ont fait l'hypothèse que
   la fierté fait partie de la nature humaine parce qu'elle remplit une
   importante fonction.

   L'homme préhistorique devait devenir appréciable aux yeux des membres
--
   Sciences (PNAS).
   [INS: :INS]

   L'émotion universelle de fierté représenterait un mécanisme qui aurait
   évolué pour résoudre ce problème, estiment les chercheurs.

   Pour le résoudre, une personne a besoin d'une représentation permettant
--
   actions de sorte que, dans le choix de façons d'agir, le gain découlant
   de l'évaluation par les autres s'ajoute au gain direct de l'action.

   Le sentiment de fierté serait une récompense interne guidant vers ces
   actions. Le système motivationnel neuronal de la fierté inciterait à
   tenir compte de la considération des autres en plus des avantages
   privés, de sorte que l'acte associé au gain total le plus élevé serait
   choisi, expliquent les auteurs.

   « "Le système de fierté semble incorporer tous les éléments nécessaires
   pour résoudre ce problème d'adaptation" », estiment les chercheurs. Des
   données provenant de sociétés occidentales, instruites,
   industrialisées, riches et démocratiques indiquent des correspondances
   étroites entre la fierté et ce que les communautés et les groupes
   spécifiques valorisent.

   Afin de vérifier si ces résultats étaient généralisables au-delà des
--
   communautés de pêcheurs au Japon.

   Malgré la grande diversité des langues, des cultures et des modes de
   subsistance, la fierté dans chaque collectivité correspondait
   étroitement aux valeurs particulières des groupes et des communautés.

   « "Cela suggère que le système de la fierté non seulement développe la
   même architecture fonctionnelle partout, mais qu'il fonctionne aussi
   avec un degré substantiel d'universalité dans son contenu" », concluent
   les chercheurs. « "Le système de la fierté semble être une partie
   fondamentale de la nature humaine, conclut Sznycer, “un système
   neuronal qui a évolué parce qu'il aide à accroître l'estime de soi et
   le statut aux yeux des autres”." »</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-32">
<text>    1. Bien-être
    2. Estime de soi

La fierté, le piège de l'amour-propre

   5 minutes
   Dans la fierté, il y a de la grandeur, de l'arrogance, et de
   l'égocentrisme. Mais aussi des insécurités, des peurs et des lacunes.
   C'est un piège d'amour-propre qui aveugle ceux qui entrent dans votre
   jeu.
   La fierté, le piège de l'amour-propre
   (BUTTON)
   Gema Sánchez Cuevas Gema Sánchez Cuevas

--
   des autres et qui croient toujours qu’ils ont raison. Ce sont ceux qui
   sont tellement passionnés par eux-mêmes que tout est trop petit pour
   eux. Personne ne peut leur enseigner ou leur montrer quoi que ce soit,
   car ils “le savaient”. C’est la marque de la fierté.

   Leurs oreilles sont fermées et leurs yeux sont aveugles à tout ce qui
   n’a rien à voir avec eux. Ils sont tellement concentrés sur eux-mêmes
--

   Son apparence est une question de sécurité. Mais il n’y a personne de
   plus incertain que celui qui se croit détenteur de la vérité. En
   réalité, ce qui leur arrive, c’est qu’ils sont pleins de fierté.
   Creusons plus profondément.
   Les personnes envahies par la fierté ne voient pas la réalité en face
   Les personnes envahies par la fierté ne voient pas la réalité en face
   (BUTTON)

Qu’est-ce que la fierté ?

   Selon le psychiatre Enrique Rojas, l’orgueil est la passion débridée de
   soi. Le piège de l’amour-propre. Le manque d’humilité et de lucidité.
--
   humanité et reçu une punition divine pour cela. Comme exemple
   d’attitudes arrogantes, nous pouvons citer Œdipe ou Prométhée.

   Celui qui a de la fierté se vénère, s’idolâtre, mais ignore également
   que la fierté est la source et l’origine de nombreux problèmes.

   Dans les domaines de la psychologie et de la philosophie, une
   distinction floue s’établit entre l’orgueil et la fierté. Certains
   conçoivent ces derniers avec un sens plus positif et émotionnel à
   partir duquel nous pouvons nous valoriser nous-mêmes et les autres, et
   c’est parfois facile à cacher. Tandis que l’orgueil se conçoit comme
--
   lui doivent aussi respect et admiration.

   Dans l’orgueil, les autres n’existent pas. Maintenant, celui qui ne
   fait pas attention à sa fierté peut aller plus loin et finir par
   cultiver des attitudes arrogantes.

   Ainsi, la fierté est un ami de l’orgueil, de la vanité, de la soif de
   pouvoir, du narcissisme et de l’égocentrisme. Tout est trop petit pour
   lui. Celui qui a de la fierté est non seulement égocentrique, ne
   valorise pas les opinions des autres parce qu’il est aveugle.
   Cependant, vous avez besoin d’un retour constant sur l’image que vous
   projetez aux autres. Ce qui se passe, c’est que les stratégies que vous
   mettez en place pour le recevoir sont très subtiles.

L’insécurité de la fierté

   La fierté se caractérise par le fait qu’en plus d’être illusoire et
   explosif, c’est un déguisement qui culmine dans l’insécurité, le manque
   de confiance en soi et un sentiment d’infériorité. Bien qu’à plusieurs
   reprises, il se produit également de manière masquée.
--
   Ainsi, derrière l’orgueil, il y a la peur. La peur de ne pas être
   capable, de ne pas être bon, suffisant ou reconnu. Et avant
   l’incapacité de l’assumer, d’accepter ces peurs et ces blessures, ils
   se réconcilient. Pour cette raison, la fierté sert à “équilibrer” ces
   lacunes et à servir de mécanisme de défense parce qu’elle aide à
   rejeter plutôt qu’à être rejeté.

--
   les autres de ressentir les peurs, les insécurités et les faiblesses de
   caractère.

   Une jeune femme pensant à la fierté et l'orgueil Une jeune femme
   pensant à la fierté et l'orgueil
   (BUTTON)

L’antidote à l’orgueil : l’humilité</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-33">
<text>
     * Accueil
     * Actualités
     * Carrières * Qu’est-ce que la fierté ?

Actualités

Intermines
Carrières * Qu’est-ce que la fierté ?

   18 octobre 2023 Actualités
   Vue 1389 fois
--
   Même si cela a mal été fait, nous sommes en mesure, devenus adultes, de
   n’en référer qu’à nous-mêmes pour juger de notre conduite.

   La fierté est alors le combustible qui alimente la fabrique permanente
   de cette estime de soi, chaque fois que nous considérons que nos actes
   sont parfaitement alignés sur nos aspirations et nos valeurs, sur le
   but qu’on vise et sur l’attente de ceux qui comptent pour nous.
--
   travailler.
   Pour autant l’estime de soi n’est pas un circuit clos. C’est plutôt une
   économie circulaire approvisionnée par tout ce qui déclenche le
   sentiment galvanisant de fierté et créant de la performance.

   L’entreprise a-t-elle bien identifié cette ressource et la
   prodigue-t-elle autant qu’il le faudrait ?
--
   va plus loin ». Dans leur team building, les managers savent
   transformer leur petite communauté d’objectifs en une communauté de
   valeurs qui se serre les coudes pour surmonter les difficultés puis
   partage la fierté de ses réussites collectives.

   Reste la fierté de ce qu’on l’on a soi-même accompli. C’est souvent là
   que le bât blesse en entreprise. Certes, nul n’y fait rien tout seul.
   Pour autant, il conviendrait de mieux rendre à César ce qui revient à
   César, en reconnaissant ce que l’objectif atteint doit à chacun. Car il
   n’y a aucun narcissisme infantile dans l’attitude de celui qui,
   ressentant la fierté d’avoir fait et bien fait, s’étonne à juste titre
   de n’en avoir aucun écho de la part de sa hiérarchie…

   Comment nourrir la fierté contributive de chaque collaborateur ?
   Il va de soi que féliciter ponctuellement un collaborateur en
   tête-à-tête et plus encore publiquement valide la fierté qu’il ressent.
   En créant son « Hall of fame » qui affiche ses champions médaillés sur
   son enceinte comme sur son site, non seulement l’INSEP leur rend
   hommage mais elle stimule la motivation de tous, athlètes confirmés
   comme jeunes recrues, tout en justifiant sa propre existence.

   Mais il existe d’autres moyens de provoquer la fierté. Le rituel
   entretien annuel se doit de ménager une meilleure place à ce dont, dans
   l’année écoulée, le collaborateur a lieu d’être fier.

--
   fait de tel bon boulot précédemment si bien effectué, dont on saura
   détailler la teneur.

   Fierté contributive plutôt que fierté concurrentielle
   De même que l’authentique fierté se justifie par une action bien menée
   et non pas par un excès d’orgueil quant à la valeur intangible de sa
   propre personne (ce qui revient alors à « faire le fier »), de même on
   peut s’interroger sur certaines pratiques managériales qui, en
--
   dévoyer une saine émulation entre collègues en rivalité malsaine basée
   sur la vanité.

   La fierté motive bien mieux quand elle est contributive que quand elle
   est concurrentielle. Parce qu’elle élève celui qui la ressent et que
   l’on gratifie, la fierté d’avoir fait son devoir, accompli sa mission,
   servi la cause commune, favorise l’engagement, la fierté d’appartenance
   à un groupe social et en cascade l’amélioration de la marque employeur.

   Gardons à l’esprit que le burn-out, comme toutes formes de dépression,
   se manifeste par la baisse conjuguée de la motivation, de l’énergie et
   de l’estime de soi. En suscitant la fierté du collaborateur ou en
   confirmant celle qu’il ressent déjà par son propre examen de
   conscience, on crée de salutaires digues contre ce mal, de meilleurs
   ambassadeurs de l’organisation et de meilleures conditions de travail.

   Et vous, quand ressentez-vous cette fierté d’être utile dans un travail
   qui a du sens, cette fierté qui donne du plaisir et du désir à la tâche
   ? L’accueillez-vous et la suscitez-vous alors pleinement parce que vous
   savez que, loin de traduire une quelconque arrogance, elle est une des
   salutaires expressions de votre propre respect de vous-même, un facteur
--


   Pour aller plus loin ...
   Fierté ! Pourquoi faire de la culture d’entreprise un objectif
   stratégique, de Peter s’Jongers, La Charte, 2020.
   La fierté. Après l’amour, c’est probablement le sentiment le plus beau
   dans le monde C’est quelque chose que nous recherchons activement,
   aussi dans notre environnement de travail. Néanmoins, en réalité, cette
   « fierté » ne fait pas partie du quotidien au travail. Ainsi, plus de
   70 % des employés vont au travail sans enthousiasme. Mais comment alors
   motiver et engager vos employés ? Ce livre traite d’une culture
   d’entreprise qui est plus qu’une simple campagne unique. D’une culture</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-34">
<text>
   Appartenance

FCC et la Fierté 2022 – Qu’est-ce que représente la Fierté pour vous?

   Fondations communautaires du Canada 22 juin 2022

--
   créer un avenir où tout le monde a sa place. Et ce « tout le monde »
   comprend les membres de notre personnel ainsi que les communautés dans
   lesquelles ces personnes vivent à travers le pays. En ce Mois de la
   Fierté, nous leur avons posé la question suivante : que signifie la
   Fierté pour toi? Nous souhaitons à toutes les personnes LGBTQ2S+ du
   réseau des fondations communautaires un Mois de la Fierté à la fois
   sécuritaire et joyeux.

     « Les choses ne s’aggravent pas, elles sont mises au jour. Nous
--

Dana

   La Fierté, c’est vivre de façon authentique, pouvoir vivre et aimer
   librement.

   Je suis sortie du placard pour la première fois il y a 15 ans. La «
--

   Alors ce mois-ci, je célèbre qui je suis, pleinement et avec vigueur.

   Bonne Fierté!

   La Fierté, c’est s’accepter soi-même avec audace et joie, et faire de
   même avec les autres, avec toutes les implications personnelles et
   politiques que cela implique.

   Alors que le Mois de la Fierté coïncide avec le Mois national de
   l’histoire autochtone, je suis reconnaissante de l’existence et de la
   résistance de personnes queers qui m’ont précédée, ainsi que des
   Autochtones qui luttent pour leur autodétermination et leur
--
   leurs connaissances et de leur travail actuel et passé, qui montrent
   qu’il y a d’autres façons d’être.

   La Fierté, c’est utiliser l’humilité, l’exubérance et la communauté
   pour résister à l’imposition oppressive de ce qui «devrait être».

Miranda

JP

   Je me souviens d’avoir assisté à mon premier défilé de la Fierté avec
   mes parents à 11 ans. Je trouvais cela génial, même si je ne comprenais
   pas tout ce qui se passait autour de moi. Depuis, la Fierté continue de
   susciter l’émerveillement en moi. C’est une occasion de faire la fête
   et de célébrer avec des êtres chers, d’être témoin d’un symbole
   puissant au sujet de ce qui compte et de ce qui est le plus nécessaire
--
   résistance aux idéologies et aux systèmes oppressifs, injustes et
   néfastes qui soutiennent la pensée binaire.

   En tant que personne hétérosexuelle, cisgenre et blanche, la Fierté
   m’incite de plus en plus à réfléchir et à me renseigner sur la façon
   dont mes privilèges et mes gestes continuent de soutenir ces systèmes,
   ainsi que sur la manière qui me permettrait de contribuer à mieux les
   remettre en question et à les démanteler.

   La Fierté, c’est être soi-même dans tous les aspects de notre vie.
   C’est aimer sans crainte. C’est vivre avec audace. C’est de ne jamais
   s’excuser d’exister. C’est un moment pour nous rappeler le chemin que
   nous avons parcouru et pour reconnaître celui qu’il nous reste à faire.
--

   Équité. Égalité. Justice sociale. Égalité des droits. Droits de la
   personne. Individualisme. Créativité. Expression de soi.
   Autodéfinition. Le Mois de la Fierté commence toujours l’été de façon
   magnifique, car le mouvement encourage les gens à se rassembler dans un
   esprit d’acceptation, de générosité, d’amitié et d’amour. La Fierté
   nous offre la possibilité d’éprouver un sentiment d’appartenance. Il
   s’agit également d’une occasion pour la communauté LGBTQ2S+ de partager
   leur histoire socioculturelle distincte. La Fierté, c’est une
   célébration des liens, de la communauté et de l’engagement.

   Pour moi, la Fierté c’est que mon neveu de quatre ans ne soit pas le
   seul à dire « certaines personnes ont deux mamans, certaines ont deux
   papas et d’autres ont une maman et un papa ». Je suis fière de savoir
   qu’il grandit en ayant conscience qu’une famille peut prendre de
   nombreuses formes, qui vont même au-delà de ce qu’il sait maintenant.

   La Fierté me rappelle également l’immense privilège que je porte en moi
   et tout ce que je dois encore apprendre. C’est l’occasion de m’engager
   à écouter davantage, et pas seulement ce mois-ci, mais tout au long de
   l’année.
--

Michelle

   La Fierté, c’est une occasion de manifester notre solidarité envers les
   personnes de la communauté LGBTQ2S+, et de célébrer leur libération et
   leur liberté, tout en reconnaissant l’oppression continue à laquelle
   elles font toujours face aujourd’hui. Il s’agit également d’un moment
   pour exprimer mon amour aux membres de ma famille et de mes ami.e.s qui
   s’identifient comme faisant partie de la communauté LGBTQ2S+. L’un de
   mes moments préférés du Mois de la Fierté, c’est quand un collègue a
   installé des t-shirts Print your pride dans le stationnement derrière
   l’espace partagé où nous travaillons, avant le défilé de la Fierté. Une
   personne de ma famille, qui a un enfant transgenre et qui passait par
   là, s’est exclamée avec enthousiasme qu’elle devait aller à la maison
   chercher son enfant qui ne croirait pas que cela se passait dans notre
--
   liens et un sentiment d’appartenance. Avec tout mon amour de la
   communauté, Michelle.

   La Fierté, pour moi, c’est l’occasion de s’assumer entièrement et
   d’afficher ouvertement sa vulnérabilité, son expressivité et son amour.
   Le Mois de la Fierté me rappelle les efforts continus des communautés
   LGBTQ2S+ pour lutter contre les systèmes oppressifs afin de créer
   l’avenir que nous voulons tous, même si elles sont souvent reléguées en
   marge de la société. La Fierté nous donne la chance de célébrer le
   passé qui nous a menés jusqu’ici, nous rappelle que nous importons et
   nous encourage à aimer ouvertement et avec insolence face à la haine.

--
   Lorsque j’étais au secondaire, assise au dernier rang de la classe,
   l’un de mes amis s’est tourné vers moi et m’a chuchoté «je pense que je
   suis gai». Ce murmure était enveloppé de honte, d’incertitude et de
   peur. Quand je pense à la Fierté, c’est exactement l’opposé qui me
   vient en tête. C’est le contraire de la honte. Les gens ont le cran
   d’être ce qu’ils sont, d’aimer la personne qu’ils aiment et d’exprimer
   ce qu’ils sont vraiment. Mais il ne s’agit pas seulement d’audace, pour
--
   c’est la vulnérabilité. Les couleurs vives et l’expression de soi sans
   compromis sont des vecteurs de la vulnérabilité et de l’ouverture.
   J’apprends énormément sur l’empathie grâce à mes amies et amis de la
   communauté LGBTQ2S+ et leur façon d’afficher leur Fierté. J’ai vraiment
   hâte de leur exprimer ma gratitude avec amour, reconnaissance et un
   certain sens de la fête au cours de ce Mois de la Fierté!

Articles liés</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-35">
<text>   À valider
   Télécharger

Dictionnaire philosophique/Garnier (1878)/Fierté

   La bibliothèque libre.
   <lt; Dictionnaire philosophique‎ | Garnier (1878)
--
   Voltaire
   Dictionnaire philosophique
   Éd. Garnier - Tome 19
   ◄  Fiction Fierté Fièvre   ►

   FIERTÉ^[1].


   Fierté est une des expressions qui, n’ayant d’abord été employées que
   dans un sens odieux, ont été ensuite détournées à un sens favorable.

   C’est un crime quand ce mot signifie la vanité hautaine, altière,
   orgueilleuse, dédaigneuse ; c’est presque une louange quand il signifie
   la hauteur d’une âme noble.

   C’est un juste éloge dans un général qui marche avec fierté à l’ennemi.
   Les écrivains ont loué la fierté de la démarche de Louis XIV : ils
   auraient dû se contenter d’en remarquer la noblesse.

   La fierté de l’âme, sans hauteur, est un mérite compatible avec la
   modestie. Il n’y a que la fierté dans l’air et dans les manières qui
   choque : elle déplaît dans les rois mêmes.

   La fierté dans l’extérieur, dans la société, est l’expression de
   l’orgueil ; la fierté dans l’âme est de la grandeur.

   Les nuances sont si délicates qu’esprit fier est un blâme ; âme fière,
   une louange : c’est que par esprit fier on entend un homme qui pense
   avantageusement de soi-même, et par âme fière on entend des sentiments
   élevés.

   La fierté annoncée par l’extérieur est tellement un défaut que les
   petits qui louent bassement les grands de ce défaut sont obligés de
   l’adoucir, ou plutôt de le relever par une épithète : cette noble
   fierté. Elle n’est pas simplement la vanité, qui consiste à se faire
   valoir par les petites choses ; elle n’est pas la présomption, qui se
   croit capable des grandes ; elle n’est pas le dédain, qui ajoute encore
   le mépris des autres à l’air de la grande opinion de soi- même ; mais
--

   On s’est servi de ce mot dans les romans et dans les vers, surtout dans
   les opéras, pour exprimer la sévérité de la pudeur : on y rencontre
   partout vaine fierté, rigoureuse fierté.

   Les poëtes ont eu peut-être plus de raison qu’ils ne pensaient. La
   fierté d’une femme n’est pas simplement la pudeur sévère, l’amour du
   devoir, mais le haut prix que son amour-propre met à sa beauté.

   On a dit quelquefois la fierté du pinceau, pour signifier des touches
   libres et hardies.
     __________________________________________________________________

--

   Fiction

   ◄ Fierté

   ► Fièvre

   Récupérée de
   « https://fr.wikisource.org/w/index.php?title=Dictionnaire_philosophiqu
   e/Garnier_(1878)/Fierté&amp;oldid=2919649 »
   Catégorie :
     * 100%</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-36">
<text>
Soyez solidaires des communautés Queer

Le Fonds pour la fierté LGBTQ+

   FAITES UN DON

--
   Supporteurs

   Personne ne doit vivre dans la peur. Il est temps de mettre un terme à
   la haine et de célébrer la Fierté.

   Au Canada et à l’étranger, les communautés LGBTQ+ continuent d’être
   victimes de violences, de discrimination et de stigmatisation. Malgré
--
Créer des espaces sécuritaires

   Pour encourager le changement positif, nous devons tous mettre la main
   à la pâte pour mettre fin à la discrimination et célébrer la fierté
   LGBTQ+.

   Les organismes de bienfaisance partout au Canada sont le fer de lance
--

Soutenez les communautés LGBTQ+ marginalisées

   Dites « Non » à la haine et faites un don au Fonds pour la fierté
   LGBTQ+ dès aujourd’hui. Il soutiendra de nombreux programmes qui
   changeront et, dans certains cas, sauveront la vie de nombreuses
   personnes LGBTQ+. Ensemble, nous pouvons mettre fin à la stigmatisation
   et créer des espaces remplis d’acceptation et de fierté.

À PROPOS DU FONDS POUR LA FIERTÉ LGBTQ+

   Le Fonds pour la fierté LGBTQ+ regroupe plus de 60 organismes de
   bienfaisance enregistrés soutenant les personnes LGBTQ+ au Canada et à
   l’étranger. Les organismes de ce Fonds sont sélectionnés selon une
   approche algorithmique qui tient compte de leur domaine d’intérêt, leur
--

Pourquoi faire un don au

Fonds pour la fierté LGBTQ+

   de S’unir pour changer</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-37">
<text>     * Anglais
     * Français

La Fierté de mon Père

   Depuis 1998 l’objectif à Martet fut de produire d’excellents vins.
   Le vignoble a été entièrement replanté à des densités plus importantes.
--

   En 2015, grâce à l’année exceptionnelle et malheureusement suite à la
   disparition de Patrick, ses enfants et son épouse ont décidé de lui
   dédicacer une cuvée spéciale : La Fierté de mon Père.

   La Fierté n’est pas une micro cuvée, mais plutôt une extrapolation de
   ce que deviendra La Réserve de la Famille au fil du temps.  Des essais
   poussés à l’extrême non pas pour plus de concentration mais plus de
   richesse, d’équilibre et d’intensité aromatique. Bref, une Fierté !

   100 % Merlot
   100 % barriques neuves Radoux Blend 18 mois</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-39">
<text>
     ›

     Citation Fierté

                               Citations Fierté

   courage - dignité - arrogance - respect - humilité - joie - grandeur -
   sentiment - vanité - noblesse.
--

Citation Fierte &amp; Votre

   "Il vaut mieux perdre votre fierté avec quelqu'un que vous aimez plutôt
   que de perdre quelqu'un que vous aimez avec votre fierté inutile."

Citation Enfants &amp; Fierte

   "Les petits enfants sont les cadeaux d'hier, la fierté d'aujourd'hui et
   la joie de demain."

Citation Vie &amp; Fierte

   "Plus on rencontre des difficultés dans la vie, plus on a en soi de
   fierté et de contentement de soi-même..."
   Tristan Bernard
   Tristan Bernard
   Artiste, écrivain, Romancier (1866 - 1947)
--
Citation Fierte &amp; Erreurs

   "Il faut endosser ses erreurs comme on endosse ses vertus... avec
   fierté ! Et transformer, en avantages, les conséquences d'une faute."
   madeleine ferron
   Madeleine Ferron
   Artiste, écrivaine, Romancière (1922 - 2010)
--
Citation Amour &amp; Savoir

   "La vanité consiste à vouloir paraître ; l'ambition, à vouloir être ;
   l'amour-propre, à croire que l'on est ; la fierté, à savoir ce que l'on
   vaut."
   Comte Rackzinski
   Comte Rackzinski
--
Citation Autres &amp; Fierte

   "Etre courageux dans l'isolement, sans témoins, sans l'assentiment des
   autres, face à face avec soi-même, cela requiert une grande fierté et
   beaucoup de force."
   Milan Kundera
   Milan Kundera
--

Proverbe Fierte &amp; Bois

   "La fierté et la bêtise sont faites du même bois."
   Proverbe allemand
   Proverbe Allemand

Citation Fierte &amp; Fort

   "Garde ta fierté, tout ce qui ne te tue pas te rend plus fort."
   Elgin à David (Street Dancers)
   Street Dancers - Elgin à David
   Film / Série

Citation Homme &amp; Fierte

   "Un homme sage a une dignité sans fierté ; un fou a de la fierté sans
   dignité."
   confucius
   Confucius
--

Citation Jour &amp; Fierte

   "En ce jour de fête nationale, nous célébrons la fierté d'être
   français, nous célébrons nos armées, leurs familles, nos blessés, et
   nous rendons un hommage ému à nos soignants."
   Emmanuel Macron
--

Citation Fierte &amp; Humilite

   "L'humilité est l'habit de gala que revêt la fierté quand elle est de
   sortie."
   Jean Paul (écrivain)
   Jean Paul (écrivain)
--

Citation Jalousie &amp; Fierte

   "Les femmes ne peuvent jamais se décider entre la fierté d'inspirer de
   la jalousie et l'ennui d'en supporter les conséquences."
   Etienne Rey
   Etienne Rey

Citation Conscience &amp; Jour

   "Israel n'a ni conscience ni honneur, ni fierté. Ils maudissent hitler
   jour et nuit mais l'ont surpassé en barbarie."
   Recep Tayyip Erdogan
   Recep Tayyip Erdogan
--

Citation Fierte &amp; Suis

   "Je suis trop rassasié pour ravaler ma fierté."
   The Weeknd
   The Weeknd
   Artiste, Chanteur, Compositeur, Homme d'affaire, Musicien,
--

Citation Homme &amp; Savoir

   "Parfois être un Homme, un vrai, c'est savoir mettre sa fierté de côté,
   reconnaître la défaite et simplement tout recommencer."
   Derek Shepherd (Grey's Anatomy)
   Grey's Anatomy - Derek Shepherd
--

Citation Fierte &amp; Progres

   "La fierté entrave le progrès."
   Ali ibn Abi Talib
   Ali Ibn Abi Talib
   Croyant, Religieux (600 - 661)

Citation Fierte &amp; Beau

   "Il est beau de s'élever au-dessus de la fierté. Encore faut-il
   l'atteindre."
   Georges Bernanos
   Georges Bernanos
--
Citation Avoir &amp; Fierte

   "Vos journalistes ont en commun avec la bourgeoisie française d'avoir
   perdu tout sentiment de fierté nationale. Pour pouvoir continuer à
   dîner en ville, la bourgeoisie accepterait n'importe quel abaissement
   de la nation. Déjà en 40, elle était derrière Pétain, car [...] ► Lire
   la suite"
--
Citation Fierte &amp; Chemin

   "Les vieux perdent l'orgueil en chemin ; c'est vrai que c'est inutile
   la fierté."
   Claude Jasmin
   Claude Jasmin

Citation Fierte &amp; Difficile

   "De tous les sentiments, le plus difficile à feindre c'est la fierté."
   Charles-Eugène de Lévis-Charlus
   Charles-Eugène De Lévis-Charlus
   Militaire (1669 - 1734)

Citation Fierte &amp; Intolerance

   "La fierté s'accompagne toujours d'intolérance."
   André Bruneau
   André Bruneau

Citation Bien &amp; Fierte

   "Vous disciplinez pour faire ce que vous savez être juste et important,
   bien que difficile, est la voie de la fierté, de l'estime de soi et de
   la satisfaction personnelle."
   Margaret Thatcher
   Margaret Thatcher
--
Citation Ecole &amp; Fierte

   "L'individualisme, qui n'est qu'un humanisme conscient de soi, est une
   école de fierté."
   Gilbert Choquette
   Gilbert Choquette
   Artiste, écrivain (1929 - )
--
Citation Vie &amp; Fierte

   "J'ai perdu ma force et ma vie, et mes amis et ma gaieté ; J'ai perdu
   jusqu'à la fierté qui faisait croire à mon génie."
   Alfred de Musset
   Alfred De Musset
   Artiste, écrivain (1810 - 1857)

Citation Fierte &amp; Parler

   "Ne laissez jamais la fierté être vous guider. Laissez vos réalisations
   parler pour vous."
   Morgan Freeman
   Morgan Freeman
--

Citation Fierte &amp; Juste

   "La fierté a rarement un juste milieu, on en a trop ou pas assez."
   Comtesse de Blessington
   Comtesse De Blessington

Citation Fierte &amp; Respect

   "On se tue pour des questions de race, de fierté et de respect. On se
   bat pour notre Amérique."
   Eva Benitez (Ecrire pour Exister)
   Ecrire Pour Exister - Eva Benitez
--

Citation Mere &amp; Pere

   "C'est même le contraire ! Par fierté, j'ai eu besoin de faire mes
   preuves par moi-même. Je ne me suis jamais senti menacé par la stature
   artistique impressionnante de mon père, car je sentais que j'avais mon
   propre caractère. Ma [...] ► Lire la suite"
--

Citation Argent &amp; Fierte

   "L'argent ne viendra pas à toi, ravale ta fierté et va le chercher."

Citation Passe &amp; Fierte

   "Notre être est notre richesse. Et notre être, c'est d'abord la fierté
   nationale, celle de notre passé."
   Max Gallo
   Max Gallo
--

Citation Monde &amp; Avenir

   "La fierté, c'est une question d'avenir en réserve, et tout le monde en
   a un peu, même si le passé n'a pas fait ses preuves."
   Guyette Lyr
   Guyette Lyr

Citation Homme &amp; Fierte

   "Quand un homme pleure, des tas de mots comme "force", "fierté",
   "virilité", des châteaux forts avec tours et oriflammes s'effondrent."
   Janine Boissard
   Janine Boissard

Citation Vie &amp; Fierte

   "Un mot peut détruire l'oeuvre d'une vie. Un mot peut élever la fierté
   d'un peuple."
   Jacques Brossard
   Jacques Brossard

Citation Fierte &amp; Femmes

   "C'est la fierté des hommes des lettres d'arriver dans la considération
   des femmes tout de suite après les cabotins."
   Georges Courteline
   Georges Courteline
--

Citation Fierte &amp; Commence

   "Quand l'innocence termine, la fierté commence."
   daniel defoe
   Daniel Defoe
   Artiste, Aventurier, Commerçant, écrivain, Homme politique (1660 -
--
Citation Depart &amp; Fierte

   "Des opinions, oui ; des convictions, non. Tel est le point de départ
   de la fierté intellectuelle."
   Emil Cioran
   Emil Cioran
   Artiste, écrivain, Philosophe (1911 - 1995)

Citation Fierte &amp; Medecin

   "Les herbes sont l'ami du médecin et la fierté des cuisiniers."
   Charlemagne
   Charlemagne
   Empereur, Homme d'état (747 - 814)

Citation Fierte &amp; Honte

   "Souvent l'audace et la fierté sont du côté du coupable, la honte du
   côté de l'innocent."
   Jean Cocteau
   Jean Cocteau
--

Citation Dieu &amp; Fierte

   "Il suffit à ma fierté que Vous soyez mon Dieu et à ma gloire que je
   vous sois soumis."
   Ali ibn Abi Talib
   Ali Ibn Abi Talib
--
Citation Fierte &amp; Entre

   "Le tempérament est ce qui cause des problèmes à la plupart d'entre
   nous. La fierté est ce qui nous maintient là."
   Mark Twain
   Mark Twain
   Acteur, Artiste, Comique, écrivain (1835 - 1910)
--
Citation Fierte &amp; Malheur

   "La pauvreté et le malheur détruisent l'essence qui alimente la
   fierté."
   Richard Sibbes
   Richard Sibbes

Citation Nature &amp; Esprit

   "Il y a dans la nature française un principe d'indestructibilité qui
   tient à la fois à la fierté de l'esprit et à la gloire du langage."
   Jean Éthier-Blais
   Jean Éthier-Blais
   Artiste, Critique, Diplomate, écrivain, Enseignant, Journaliste,
--

Citation Fierte &amp; Survie

   "La fierté condition sine qua none de survie d'une collectivité."
   Alice Parizeau
   Alice Parizeau
   Artiste, écrivaine, Journaliste (1930 - 1990)
--

   "Malgré sa folle trahison
   N'est-elle pas encor la même ?
   La fierté n'est plus de saison.
   Je l'aime."
   Charles Cros
   Charles Cros
--
Citation Fierte &amp; Coup

   "J'ai tordu le coup à la fatalité. J'ai fait mentir la génétique. C'est
   ma fierté."
   Tim Guénard
   Tim Guénard

--
   Vertueux ayant bien raison,
   Vaut autant boire du poison.
   Je ne veux pas de maladie,
   Ma fierté n'est pas refroidie,
   J'entends la jeune mélodie."
   Charles Cros
   Charles Cros
--
Citation Fierte &amp; Entre

   "Le tempérament est ce qui cause le plus d'ennuis à la plupart d'entre
   nous. La fierté est ce qui nous maintient là-bas."
   Mark Twain
   Mark Twain
   Acteur, Artiste, Comique, écrivain (1835 - 1910)
   Suiv >gt;>gt;
   1 2

Questions fréquentes sur « fierté »

     * ► Quelle est la citation la plus célèbre sur « fierté » ?
          + La citation la plus célèbre sur « fierté » est : "« Soit un
            homme, on nous le dit tout le temps. Mais au fond ça veut dire
            quoi ? Qu'il faut être fort, qu'il faut savoir se sacrifier,
            qu'il faut gagner à tout prix ? Peut-être que c'est plus
            simple que ça. C'est [...] »" (Personnage inconnu dans Grey's
            Anatomy).
     * ► Quelle est la citation la plus courte sur « fierté » ?
          + La citation la plus courte sur « fierté » est : "« La fierté
            entrave le progrès. »" (Ali ibn Abi Talib).
     * ► Quelle est la citation la plus belle sur « fierté » ?
          + La citation la plus belle sur « fierté » est : "« Les petits
            enfants sont les cadeaux d'hier, la fierté d'aujourd'hui et la
            joie de demain. »" (Anonyme).
     * ► Quelle est la citation la plus longue sur « fierté » ?
          + La citation la plus longue sur « fierté » est : "« La première
            embrouille, première opposition inconsciente à mon père a été
            avec une poupée. J'avais 9 ans quand mon père a distribué à ma
            soeur et moi deux poupées barbies. Elle, Chirine, était folle
            de joie. Elle était fascinée. Elle [...] »" (Lya dans Des
            poupées et des anges).

Phrases sur « fierté »

     * Citations Fierté
     * Citations Fierté mal placée
     * Citations La fierté
     * Citations Ma fierté
     * Citations de Comte Rackzinski sur Fierte

Citations proches du thème « fierté »

     * Citations Courage
     * Citations Dignité</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-4">
<text>
   Email catcher

                                    fierté

   définitiondéf.synonymessyn.combinaisonscombi.exemplesex.17^e siècle17^e
   s.

Définition

Définition de fierté ​​​ Votre navigateur ne prend pas en charge audio. nom
féminin

   Attitude arrogante. ➙ dédain, hauteur, suffisance.
   littéraire Sentiment élevé de la dignité, de l'honneur. ➙ amour-propre,
   orgueil.
   La marche des fiertés : manifestation festive et revendicative, à
   l'initiative de la communauté LGBT.
   Fait d'être fier (3) de qqn, de qqch. ➙ contentement, satisfaction.
   Tirer une juste fierté de sa réussite.
   Ce qui fait concevoir de la fierté. Cette collection est sa fierté.

   définitiondéf.synonymessyn.combinaisonscombi.exemplesex.17^e siècle17^e
   s.

Synonymes

Synonymes de fierté nom féminin

   amour-propre, estime (de soi-même), orgueil, vanité

--

   honneur, gloire

Synonymes de avec fierté

   fièrement, bravement, courageusement, crânement, dignement, la tête
   haute, le front haut, noblement
--

Combinaisons

Mots qui s'emploient fréquemment avec fierté (orgueil)

verbe + fierté

   afficher + fierté
   affirmer + fierté
   blesser + fierté
   donner + fierté
   éprouver + fierté
   exprimer + fierté
   manquer + de fierté
   montrer + fierté
   perdre + fierté
   rendre + fierté
   ressentir + fierté
   retrouver + fierté
   tirer + fierté

nom + de + fierté

   brin de fierté
   objet de fierté
   pointe de fierté
   sentiment de fierté
   source de fierté
   sujet de fierté

fierté + adjectif

   fierté excessive

   fierté légitime
   fierté maternelle
   fierté nationale
   fierté paternelle
   fierté personnelle
   fierté professionnelle
   grande fierté
   Afficher toutRéduire

   définitiondéf.synonymessyn.combinaisonscombi.exemplesex.17^e siècle17^e
--

Exemples

Phrases avec le mot fierté

   Et les machines qui s'en occupent font la fierté de la
   maison.Ouest-France, Anaëlle BERRE, 10/12/2014
   Ce qui pourrait augmenter le goût du challenge d'une part et la fierté
   et la confiance d'autre part.Revue management et avenir, 2014,
   Vesselina Tossan, Hela Chebbi (Cairn.info)
   L'enjeu est de maintenir le lien au jour le jour, de réaffirmer la
   fierté d'appartenance et de commencer la journée avec une belle
   énergie.Capital, 03/05/2021, « Télétravail : pourquoi est-il si
   important de maintenir un lien informel ? »
   Cette position, c'est la fierté d'être soi (du point de vue personnel),
   c'est la reconnaissance (du point du social).Rhizome, 2015, Claude
   Deutsch, Martine Dutoit (Cairn.info)
   C'est le clou du festival, qui fait la fierté des
   organisateurs.Ouest-France, 17/08/2021
   Sur les photos, on voit l'homme de 68 ans, le visage illuminé de
   fierté, face à un monstre de 278 kilos.Géo, 21/12/2020, « Japon : au
   cœur de la fabrique des thons géants »
   Les sapins faisaient un peu la fierté de ce couple de
   résidents.Ouest-France, 08/08/2020
   Cette fierté retrouvée s'affirme également sur le marché de l'art.Géo,
   04/11/2016, « Les nouveaux maîtres de la photographie africaine »
   Cette étude a montré que le tandem honte et fierté ne représente pas un
   modèle unique d'expérience migratoire.Migrations Société, 2018, Jocelyn
   O. Celero, Françoise Lorcerie (Cairn.info)
   Celui de la prise de conscience de la responsabilité des hommes dans la
   reproduction, racine de la fierté virile.Ça m'intéresse, 08/03/2018,
   « Depuis quand l'homme domine-t-il la femme ? »
   Une fierté d'autant plus grande qu'elle s'est lancée seule dans la
   compétition.Ouest-France, Faustine LUNEAU, 11/02/2021
   Et jamais, je le répète, je n'ai entendu sortir de sa bouche que des
   paroles de fierté et d'amour.Émile Zola (1840-1902)
   Ah si, une fierté tout de même : la naissance, le 16 juin 2013, de deux
   petits requins gris.Ouest-France, Michel ORIOT, 18/10/2014
   S'il n'est pas encore tout à fait opérationnel, les étudiants ne
   cachent pas leur fierté.Ouest-France, Alix DEMAISON, 16/04/2018
   Malgré toutes ces années d’expérience syndicale dernière moi, j’ai
   rarement été témoin d’une telle tension et d’une telle fierté.Europarl
   Cette obligation est en même temps source de fierté lorsqu'elle permet
   de se détacher des pratiques clientélistes.Autrepart, 2007, Pía Valeria
   Rius (Cairn.info)
   Pour finir, les gens peuvent ressentir une fierté rattachée au fait
   d'être un animal et s'identifier à eux.Ça m'intéresse, 31/01/2022,
   « Voici comment notre vision des animaux influence notre lien avec… »
   Ils sont électriques et ils ont fait la fierté des écologistes.Capital,
   13/02/2021, « Froid, gel... échec cuisant pour les bus électriques
   amiénois »
   Ce point de vue correspond aux éléments précédemment indiqués sur
   l'orientation temporelle et la fierté par rapport aux réalisations
   intellectuelles et scientifiques passées.Revue française de gestion,
   2007, Bernard Pras, CATHERINE VAUDOUR-LAGRÂCE (Cairn.info)
   Cette dernière apparaît comme une production phare qui fait la fierté
   des producteurs.Pour, 2016, Adeline Graby, Pierre Guillemin
   (Cairn.info)
   Afficher toutRéduire
--

Dictionnaire universel de Furetière (1690)

Définition ancienne de FIERTÉ subst. fem.

   Qualité de celuy qui est fier. La fierté sied bien aux belles. les
   Princes ont une noble fierté, une grande fierté de courage ; Et en
   mauvaise part, on dit, Respondre avec fierté, avec insolence, temerité.
   On dit aussi des chevaux courageux, qu'ils ont de la fierté.

   Ces définitions du XVII^e siècle, qui montrent l'évolution de la langue
   et de l'orthographe françaises au cours des siècles, doivent être</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-40">
<text>   #Fierté Montpellier Pride » Flux Fierté Montpellier Pride » Flux des
   commentaires Fierté Montpellier Pride » Page d’accueil Flux des
   commentaires alternate alternate alternate

   Fierté Montpellier Pride

     * PRIDE MONTPELLIER 2023
          + Revendications 2023
--
     * LA MAISON DES LGBT
          + L’Historique
          + Le Local
     * L’Association Fierté Montpellier Pride
          + Les Pôles
               o Pôle Convivialité
               o Pôle Trans
--
   Sélectionner une page
   ____________________

MARCHE DES FIERTÉS DIVERSITÉS

   Mettons la haine hors de combat !
   ADHERERFAIRE UN DON
--
   cette journée internationale de lutte contre le VIH / Sida 🎀 #vih #sida
   #sensibilisation #santépublique
   🖊️ COMMUNIQUÉ 🖊️ Réhabilitation des 🖊️ COMMUNIQUÉ 🖊️ Réhabilitation des
   personnes homosexuelles condamnées Fierté Montpellier Pride salue
   l'adoption à l'unanimité par le Sénat de la proposition de loi déposée
   par le socialiste Hussein Bourgi le 22 novembre. Celle-ci reconnaît la
   "responsabilité" de l'État français dans sa politique de discrimination
--
   l'ordre du jour de l'Assemblée nationale avant d'être définitivement
   adopté. Cela nous rappelle que l'expression de son orientation sexuelle
   et de son identité de genre est un droit précieux et fragile qu'il faut
   savoir protéger sans relâche et revendiquer sans compromis. Fierté
   Montpellier Pride rend ici hommage à toutes les victimes de cette loi
   de haine rétrograde, et leur adresse ainsi qu'à leurs proches tout son
   amour, son soutien et son engagement militant le plus total.
   Solidairement, Fierté Montpellier Pride #rehabilitation #reconnaissance
   #discrimination #histoire #lgbtphobie #droit #loi #homosexualité #senat
   #husseinbourgi</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-41">
<text>               o Planète 206.com
               o Planète Youngtimer
               o PSA Family
               o PSA, notre fierté française
               o Renault Sport P.A.C.A.
               o Renault Sport Yvelines
               o Seat 59/62
--

     >gt;

     PSA, notre fierté française

Catégories

--
               o Planète 206.com
               o Planète Youngtimer
               o PSA Family
               o PSA, notre fierté française
               o Renault Sport P.A.C.A.
               o Renault Sport Yvelines
               o Seat 59/62
--
               o Planète 206.com
               o Planète Youngtimer
               o PSA Family
               o PSA, notre fierté française
               o Renault Sport P.A.C.A.
               o Renault Sport Yvelines
               o Seat 59/62
--

   2,50 € (HT)

PSA, notre fierté française

   Filtrer par
   Sélectionner
--
     * 1/2
     * Suivant

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française DS3
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française DS3

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin. Dans cette talle le collage est
--
   lavage !! Pas de feux Rouge sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française Mono couleur
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française Mono couleur

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin, collage conseillé en dehors du champs de
--
   sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française Tri-color
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française Tri-color

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin, collage conseillé en dehors du champs de
--
   sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 207
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 207

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin. Dans cette talle le collage est
--
   lavage !! Pas de feux Rouge sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française RCZ
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française RCZ

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin. Dans cette talle le collage est
--
   lavage !! Pas de feux Rouge sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 206
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 206

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin. Dans cette talle le collage est
--
   lavage !! Pas de feux Rouge sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française Saxo
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française Saxo

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin. Dans cette talle le collage est
--
   lavage !! Pas de feux Rouge sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 106
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 106

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin. Dans cette talle le collage est
--
   lavage !! Pas de feux Rouge sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française C4
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française C4

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin. Dans cette talle le collage est
--
   lavage !! Pas de feux Rouge sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 208
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 208

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin. Dans cette talle le collage est
--
   lavage !! Pas de feux Rouge sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 307
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 307

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin. Dans cette talle le collage est
--
   lavage !! Pas de feux Rouge sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 306
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 306

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin. Dans cette talle le collage est
--
   lavage !! Pas de feux Rouge sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 406 Berline
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 406 Berline

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin. Dans cette talle le collage est
--
   lavage !! Pas de feux Rouge sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 406 Coupé
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 406 Coupé

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin. Dans cette talle le collage est
--
   lavage !! Pas de feux Rouge sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 205
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 205

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin. Dans cette talle le collage est
--
   lavage !! Pas de feux Rouge sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 206cc
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 206cc

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin. Dans cette talle le collage est
--
   lavage !! Pas de feux Rouge sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 207cc
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 207cc

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin. Dans cette talle le collage est
--
   lavage !! Pas de feux Rouge sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 308
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 308

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin. Dans cette talle le collage est
--
   lavage !! Pas de feux Rouge sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 405
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française 405

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin. Dans cette talle le collage est
--
   lavage !! Pas de feux Rouge sur la version Vitrophanie inversé.
   Aperçu rapide

   Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française C2
   Aperçu rapide

Stickers PSA Notre Fierté Française C2

   2,50 € (HT)
   En 12cm le lettrage reste fin. Dans cette talle le collage est
--
               o Planète 206.com
               o Planète Youngtimer
               o PSA Family
               o PSA, notre fierté française
               o Renault Sport P.A.C.A.
               o Renault Sport Yvelines
               o Seat 59/62
--
               o Planète 206.com
               o Planète Youngtimer
               o PSA Family
               o PSA, notre fierté française
               o Renault Sport P.A.C.A.
               o Renault Sport Yvelines
               o Seat 59/62</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-42">
<text>
   June 01, 2020

À quoi peut servir la fierté ?

   June 01, 2020/ Guest User

--
   Vous souvenez-vous de la dernière fois où vous vous êtes senti fier.e ?
   D’un.e proche, d’un.e ami.e, de votre pays ? Et c’était quand la
   dernière fois où vous avez été fier.e de vous-même ? Si vous avez ces
   instants de fierté en tête, pourquoi à votre avis les avez-vous
   ressenti à ces moments-là ? Et qu’est-ce que le fait d’éprouver cette
   fierté dit de votre rapport à vous-même, de votre éducation ou de la
   société dans laquelle on vit ?

   Dans cet épisode d’Émotions, Sarah-Lou Lepers nous aide à comprendre ce
   qu’est la fierté en étudiant son origine, souvent liée à des valeurs de
   conformité et de traditions, et en analysant la fonction salvatrice
   qu’elle peut avoir aujourd’hui pour certaines communautés.

--
       éditions L’Harmattan
     * La chercheuse Laura French Bourgeois, et sa thèse sur le rôle des
       sanctions sociales dans les comportements de vote
     * Le chercheur Michel Dorais, auteur de De la honte à la fierté, 250
       jeunes de la diversité sexuelle se révèlent, publié aux éditions
       VLB
     * Le sociologue Didier Eribon, auteur de l'ouvrage d'auto-analyse
       Retour à Reims (qui traite de la fierté de soi, de son identité
       sexuelle, de son origine sociale) publié aux éditions Fayard
     * Le réalisateur David Frances, auteur du documentaire The death and
       life of Martha P. Johnson, sur les émeutes de Stonewall en 1969
--

   Émotions est un podcast de Louie Media. Présentatrice et chargée de
   production : Cyrielle Bedu. Sarah-Lou Lepers est la journaliste qui a
   fait cet épisode sur la fierté. La création sonore et la composition
   des musiques de l’épisode sont de Nicolas Vair, la musique du générique
   a été faite par Nicolas De Gélis. Jean-Baptiste Aubonnet s’est occupé
   de l’enregistrement et du mix. Marion Girard est responsable de
--
   direction éditoriale.

   June 01, 2020/ Guest User/
   fierté, émotions, fierté homosexuelle, négitude, minorités, communautés

Guest User</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-43">
<text>   Actualité
   Vous êtes ici : Version françaiseOffre de formation

"Une fierté personnelle"

   Témoignages de trois stagiaires ayant eu un Master 2 à l'université,
   extrait d'un article de la Nouvelle République, signé Mariella Esvant,</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-44">
<text>   En partenariat avec Bpifrance
   28992

Big de Bpifrance : la Fierté entrepreneuriale à l'honneur

   L'événement qui vise à célébrer l'innovation et les projets
   entrepreneuriaux en France et au-delà revient à l'Accor Arena Paris le
   5 octobre prochain. Cette année, le rendez-vous incontournable pour
   inspirer, éduquer et connecter les entrepreneurs, tout en stimulant
   l'esprit d'entreprise et l'innovation, revient aux origines de son
   projet lumineux basé sur l'énergie positive avec le thème de la Fierté.
   Temps de lecture : 5 minutes
   (BUTTON) ×
   Envie d'être le premier au courant ?
--
   Comme chaque année, l'espace principal de l'Accor Arena Paris sera
   réservé au BANG, une scène magistrale qui accueillera pas moins de 80
   speakers venus présenter leur histoire durant 8 à 10 minutes chacun et
   surtout partager ce que représente pour eux la Fierté entrepreneuriale,
   thème central de cette 9ème édition. "Nicolas Dufourcq décrit parfois
   Bpifrance comme une "psychobanque". Notre conviction, c'est que
   l'entrepreneuriat est autant une question d'argent que de psychologie.
   Ainsi, sur cette scène, les entrepreneurs sont invités à parler d'eux
   en tant que dirigeants, à évoquer leur fierté entrepreneuriale, mais
   peut-être aussi des aspects plus personnels." Autour du BANG, d'autres
   espaces, des bulles, accueilleront des conférences, des ateliers, des
   tables rondes et d'autres stands d'exposition pour aborder une
--
   contenus disponibles en remote ne cesse de grandir et pour cette
   nouvelle édition la quasi intégralité du Big sera disponible en ligne.”

La Fierté entrepreneuriale au coeur de l’édition 2023

   L'an passé, le Big rassemblait plus de 1000 intervenants autour du
   thème de la métamorphose. Cette édition 2023 mettra en lumière la
   Fierté entrepreneuriale. "Nicolas Dufourcq, Directeur général de la
   Banque publique d'investissement, est à l'origine de cet axe qui
   devrait influencer toutes les interventions qui se tiendront sur la
   scène du Bang, avec l'attente de plus de 2000 participants", confie
--
   surtout doivent être fiers des projets développés sur le territoire est
   particulièrement en accord avec l'ADN de Bpifrance."Le jaune de BPI
   renvoie à un projet lumineux basé sur l'énergie positive et créatrice.
   Il semble impossible de réussir sans une dose de fierté. C'est un
   élément clé pour traverser les situations difficiles. La fierté est un
   moteur, bien que ce soit un domaine avec lequel les Français ne sont
   pas forcément à l'aise. D'ailleurs c'est toujours intéressant de
   constater que l'image des Français à l'internationale est souvent très
   décorrélée de celle qu'ils ont d'eux-mêmes." Chez Bpifrance, la fierté
   est pleinement assumée. "Nous sommes très fiers des entrepreneurs que
   nous accompagnons ; fiers de leurs projets, de leur créativité, de
   leurs ambitions, du sens de leurs actions et de l'impact qu'elles ont ;
   fiers de la dynamique entrepreneuriale du pays, de sa situation
   économique, mais aussi fiers de nos collaborateurs qui ont traversé la
   crise, explique Paul-François Fournier avant de souligner que cette
   fierté est bien empreinte d'humilité, Nous sommes particulièrement
   conscients du chemin qui reste à parcourir, mais nous avons traversé de
   nombreuses crises et dans la tempête, il paraît indispensable de
   s'appuyer sur ce qui fonctionne, sur ce qui avance. Il y a 3 ans,
--
   direction Innovation de Bpifrance.

   Avec une programmation diversifiée et un thème central stimulant comme
   la "Fierté", la neuvième édition du Big devrait être une source
   d'inspiration et de croissance pour les entrepreneurs et les porteurs
   de projets qui y participeront.
   Pour accéder en avant-première à la création de votre parcours</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-45">
<text>
    1. Accueil
    2. Programme
    3. La virilité, fierté ou boulet ?

   © Benoît Guillaume

   © Benoît Guillaume

La virilité, fierté ou boulet ?

Les Procès du siècle - Saison 2</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-46">
<text>   <lt; Retour à l'annuaire

Fierté Montpellier Pride

   https://www.facebook.com/FierteMontpellierPride/
   https://twitter.com/fiertemtppride
   https://www.instagram.com/fiertemontpellierpride/
   https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCe1wWxeyJbsoe0XO0LPsUVw
   Organise la Pride/ Fierté Montpellier. Lutte contre les
   discriminations, pour les droits des LGBTQI+. Lutte contre le sida, les
   IST &amp; questions de santé.
   https://www.fiertemontpellierpride.com/</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-47">
<text>     * Normandie
     * Seine-Maritime
     * Rouen
     * À Rouen, pourquoi la préfecture interdit « La marche de la fierté
       normande » ?

À Rouen, pourquoi la préfecture interdit « La marche de la fierté normande »
?

   Publié le 14/10/2023 à 10h23
--
     * Normandie

   La préfecture de Seine-Maritime a décidé via un arrêté d'interdire « La
   marche de la fierté normande » qui devait se tenir samedi 14 ocobre à
   Rouen. On vous explique pourquoi.

   Le préfet de Seine-Maritime a signé un arrêté le vendredi 13 octobre
   portant sur l'interdiction d'un rassemblement "Marche de la fierté
   normande" prévu ce samedi 14 octobre.

   Cette marche devait débuter à 18h depuis la tour Jeanne d'Arc pour
--
   dans la conquête de l’Angleterre par les normands.", indiquaient les
   organisateurs sur ses réseaux sociaux.

   "Cette marche vise avant tout à faire revivre la fierté d’être normand
   au travers d’un événement enraciné et populaire."

Des mouvements d'extrême droite ?
--
   (BUTTON) partager cet article

   partager (BUTTON)
   À Rouen, pourquoi la préfecture interdit « La marche de la fierté
   normande » ?
     * Facebook
     * Mail
--
     * Normandie
     * Seine-Maritime
     * Rouen
     * À Rouen, pourquoi la préfecture interdit « La marche de la fierté
       normande » ?

   l’actualité de votre région, dans votre boîte mail</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-48">
<text>
   Accueil >gt; Votre carrière

« Big remet la fierté entrepreneuriale au centre ! »

   ENTREPRISES
   (BUTTON) SUIVRE CE SUJET (BUTTON) SUIVI SUIVI
--
   chefs d’entreprise : nous sommes une banque solide qui les soutient et
   les met en relation pour les faire grandir ensemble. Pour résumer, on
   attend de cet événement une grande piqûre d’énergie pour remettre la
   fierté entrepreneuriale au centre !
   Publicité

Pourquoi avoir choisi la fierté comme thématique de cette 9ème édition ?

   Parce que chaque entrepreneur transforme le monde à son échelle, et
   cette transformation se réalise seulement lorsque l’on est fier de ses
--
       brother qui est dangereux, pas le big data.”
       Entreprises et marchés
     *
   La fierté retrouvée d'être Espagnol en Catalogne
       Economie et politique
     *
   Centres commerciaux : ils repassent à l'action
--
   Centre de loisirs : inscription et fonctionnement
       Votre carrière
     *
   Mois sans tabac: arrêt total ou pas, la "fierté" quand même
       Entreprises et marchés
     *
   Roland-Garros: sérénité, fierté et soulagement pour les favoris
       Conso
     *
   Macron à bord du Charles de Gaulle, "immense fierté" pour la France
       Economie et politique
     *
   Manuel Valls s'érige en exemple de la fierté de devenir français
       Economie et politique
     *
   Centre éducatif fermé : principe, financement et intérêt
--
   Le big business des casques Beats
       Entreprises et marchés
     *
   "C'est moi qui ai fait ça": la fierté des ouvriers du Grand Paris
       Express
       Immobilier</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-49">
<text>
   Livres Mode d'emploi

     * La fierté d'être soi

La fierté d'être soi

     * auteur : Guy Missoum
     * éditeur : Éditions Leduc
--
   projets !

   C’est en reconnaissant nos atouts que nous pourrons retrouver « la
   fierté d’être soi » et changer en profondeur !

Dans la même catégorie</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-5">
<text>
   Définition, traduction, prononciation, anagramme et synonyme sur le
   dictionnaire libre Wiktionnaire.
   Voir aussi : fierté

Français[modifier le wikicode]</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-50">
<text>   Sélectionner une page
   ____________________

Fierté Montréal 2023

   6 Mar 2023 | Archive appels à candidature
   Fierté Montréal 2023
   Accueil » Archive appels à candidature » Fierté Montréal 2023

Fierté Montréal 2023 : participez à une mission de coopération citoyenne
pendant les journées communautaires

   Montréal, Québec
   Du 10 au 13 août 2023
   Date limite de candidature : 24 avril 2023

     L’OFQJ, en partenariat avec la Fierté Montréal et la section
     Québécoise de l’OFQJ, soutient la participation de chercheur.e.s,
     militant.e.s, juristes, jeunes engagé.e.s en faveur des droits
     LGBTQ+ afin de leur permettre de prendre part aux journées
     communautaires du festival de la Fierté. En complément, l’OFQJ
     Québec organisera un programme de rencontres et d’activités. Le
     projet de mobilité internationale se déroulera à Montréal du 10 au
     13 août 2023.

   IFRAME: about:blank

Fierté Montréal

   Le Festival de la Fierté de Montréal est un événement majeur de la
   communauté LGBTQ+ qui célèbre la diversité, l’inclusion et l’égalité
   des droits. Chaque année, pendant dix jours en été, Montréal vibre au
   rythme des festivités, des défilés, des spectacles mais aussi des
--
     * Des temps de réseautage OFQJ France &amp; OFQJ Québec ;
     * La participation à une activité de bénévolat ponctuelle en équipe
       internationale pendant quelques heures : temps organisé par notre
       partenaire « Fierté Montréal » (exemples évoqués : distribution de
       drapeaux pendant un défilé, information pendant un temps fort).

L'appel à candidatures
--

En savoir plus

   Fierté Montréal 2023

   Le programme Engagement citoyen de l’OFQJ</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-51">
<text>   Email Print
   Synthèse

Motivation, efficacité et influence: Comment la fierté stimule votre
leadership

   « La vanité consiste à vouloir paraître, l’ambition à vouloir être,
   l’amour propre à croire que l’on est et la fierté à savoir ce que l’on
   vaut ». Attribuée à l’homme d’état polonais Edward Raczynski, cette
   citation traduit bien l’ambiguïté du concept de fierté. Car, souvent
   confondue avec l’orgueil ou l’arrogance, la fierté n’a pas bonne
   réputation. Levier de motivation individuelle et collective, cette
   émotion constitue pourtant une composante clé du leadership.

   Selon Jessica Tracy, professeur de psychologie à l’université de
   Colombie Britannique de Vancouver, la fierté est restée longtemps un «
   non sujet » pour la recherche, les scientifiques n’y voyant qu’une
   disposition psychologique réservée à certains individus ou un sentiment
   volatile influencé par l’environnement. Après plusieurs années de
   recherche menées des Etats-Unis jusqu’au Burkina Faso, Jessica Tracy
   est toutefois parvenue à démontrer que la fierté est au contraire une
   émotion universelle à l’instar des six émotions fondamentales que sont
   la joie, la colère, la tristesse, la peur, le dégoût et la surprise. La
   fierté est ainsi bien plus qu’un ressenti passager, il s’agit d’un
   caractère distinctif de la nature humaine. Une émotion particulièrement
   utile en contexte professionnel, précise la chercheuse, car elle agit
   comme un accélérateur de performance à la fois individuelle et
   collective.
   Un instinct de compétition sociale qui pousse au dépassement de soi…
   La fierté selon Jessica Tracy, est l’émotion – agréable – qui née
   lorsqu’un individu se sent à la hauteur de l’image qu’il se fait de
   lui-même et de sa place dans la société. Il s’agit d’un besoin
   fondamental, un instinct de compétition qui sert à affirmer sa place
   dans une hiérarchie sociale. Aussi, quand nous ne ressentons pas de
   fierté, observe Jessica Tracy, nous avons tous tendance à la
   rechercher. Une quête qui nous motive à avancer, voire à nous dépasser.
   Le Californien Dean Karnazes illustre parfaitement ce phénomène. En
   soirée chez des amis, en 1992, il décide sur un coup de tête de rentrer
--
   propres mots, « devenir l’homme qu’il voulait être ».

   … sans pour autant nuire à l’intérêt collectif
   Comme les autres émotions fondamentales la fierté n’a pas que des
   effets psychologiques, elle influe aussi directement sur le
   métabolisme. L’expression archétypale (même feinte) de la fierté –
   posture droite, torse gonflé, tête légèrement inclinée vers l’arrière –
   agit ainsi comme une pompe à testostérone. Les recherches de Jessica
   Tracy montrent qu’adopter cette attitude permet de prendre des
--

   La suite dans notre dossier :

Motivation, efficacité et influence. Comment la fierté stimule votre
leadership

   [BD27202.jpg] D’après Take Pride, Why the Deadliest Sin Holds the
--

   © Copyright Business Digest - Tout droit réservé
   Marqué avec : qualités personnelles, Charisme, comportement, attitude,
   Ego, motivation, fierté, Humilité, engagement
   Share
   Tweeter Share on Facebook Partager sur Linkedin
   Email Print</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-52">
<text>   Les membres bénéficient des ventes privées ! Jusqu'à 30 % de réduction
   - la sélection s'agrandit. Inscris-toi ou connecte-toi à ton compte
   ODLO pour en profiter maintenant.
   La fierté d’être athlète

La fierté d’être athlète

   Bouger est un plaisir simple qui nous unit, quels que soient ton
   activité et l’endroit où tu la pratiques. Car nous vivons le sport au
--
   pratiquer toutes les activités qui me plaisent, que ce soit du yoga, du
   CrossFit ou du vélo. Quel que soit ton sport et peu importe ce que les
   autres disent de toi ou de ce que tu fais, n’aie jamais honte de ce que
   tu es. Pour moi, c’est la vraie signification de ce mois des Fiertés. »


   #3: https://www.instagram.com/noranova_/</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-53">
<text>
   Visit INEOS.com

La fierté de l'Afrique

Le sud de la Tanzanie est l'endroit idéal pour voir du gibier en abondance,
mais très peu d'entre nous ont mis les pieds dans de vastes étendues sauvages
--
   4 min read
   inch14_africa.jpg

La fierté de l'Afrique

   Le sud de la Tanzanie abrite plus de lions que n'importe autre endroit
   sur terre, et est la r&amp;eacute;gion id&amp;eacute;ale pour voir du gibier en</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-55">
<text>
   FR   EN

   Accueil » Sport et Fierté
   ____________________ (BUTTON) ok

   catégories:
--
     * Intégration
     * Valeurs et éthique

Sport et Fierté

20 portraits de personnalités engagées

--
   alliées. Elles se positionnent sur les préconisations de la Fondation
   FIER et livrent des clés pour inspirer les plus jeunes, mais aussi les
   instances sportives et les institutions publiques.
   Sport et Fierté – 20 portraits de personnalités engagées

   IFRAME: //v.calameo.com/?bkcode=000761585817b88409a78&amp;mode=mini</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-56">
<text>   ____________________
   (BUTTON) Search

Fierté et politique : les revendications pour les droits LGBTQI+ deviennent
encore plus urgentes

   Les événements de la fierté 2022 mettent au défi les réactions
   anti-droits et le recul démocratique
   INCLUSION
   15.Jul.2022
--
   FRENES

   En juin et juillet, la période qui regroupe le plus de festivités de la
   fierté dans de nombreuses régions du monde, beaucoup de personnes se
   sont mobilisées pour demander le respect des droits des personnes
   LGBTQI+. Après la pandémie, certains grands événements ont de nouveau
   pu être organisés, et il semblait que de nouvelles possibilités
--
   manifestants associent de plus en plus leurs revendications à des
   luttes plus larges – pour le droit à l’avortement, la justice raciale,
   le changement politique et les libertés démocratiques et civiques
   fondamentales. Les manifestations en faveur de la fierté sont plus
   nécessaires que jamais.

   Dans de nombreux pays, le mois de la fierté a été l’occasion pour les
   personnes LGBTQI+ et leurs alliés de se rassembler pour rendre visible
   la cause des personnes LGBTQI+ et faire valoir leurs droits. Bien que
   des manifestations de ce type soient organisées tout au long de
--
   du mois de juin et au début du mois de juillet, période qui revêt une
   importance particulière : le 28 juin 1969, le soulèvement de Stonewall
   à New York marquait le début du mouvement organisé pour les droits des
   LGBTQI+. Un an plus tard, les premiers défilés de la fierté ont eu lieu
   aux États-Unis.

   Depuis, les gens se mobilisent à cette période de l’année. Mais en
   2022, un nouveau sentiment d’urgence s’est fait sentir lors de nombreux
   événements de la fierté, à une période pendant laquelle les droits en
   matière de santé sexuelle et reproductive sont de plus en plus remis en
   question.

--
   depuis 2019, les personnes ont de nouveau manifesté dans les rues après
   que la pandémie a transformé les rassemblements de masse en événements
   en ligne. Ce n’est pas la seule raison pour laquelle la marche de la
   fierté de New York de cette année était différente : elle a eu lieu
   quelques jours seulement après la décision de la Cour suprême des
   États-Unis qui a renversé l’arrêt Roe v. Wade. En signe de solidarité,
   la marche a été menée par des représentants de Planned Parenthood et
--
   couleur et en exigeant des avancées en matière de droits sur tous les
   fronts.

La fierté trans à Londres

   La politique du Royaume-Uni est de plus en plus rattrapée par le même
   genre de guerre culturelle sombre qui a fini par dominer le discours
--
   en signe de protestation contre ce revirement sur les « thérapies de
   conversion ».

   D’instinct, les participants aux festivités de la fierté à New York ont
   compris que le droit à l’avortement faisait partie de leur combat, mais
   que la guerre culturelle de la droite cherchait à diviser pour mieux
   régner. Lorsque les responsables politiques et les groupes anti-droits
--
   à New York est d’autant plus important.

   En outre, cela a rendu la période regroupant de nombreuses festivités
   de la fierté encore plus importante pour les personnes transgenres
   opprimées du Royaume-Uni. Le 9 juillet, plus de 20 000 personnes ont
   participé à la manifestation de la fierté transgenre à Londres, dont le
   slogan était « Pride is a Protest » (« La fierté est une
   protestation »). Elles ont ainsi largement dépassé le précédent record
   de participation, qui était de 7 500 personnes. Les organisateurs ont
   veillé à ce que l’évènement soit pleinement accessible aux personnes en
   situation de handicap, prenant ainsi en compte les multiples formes de
   discrimination qui aboutissent à la négation des droits.

Une fierté radicale au Royaume-Uni et aux États-Unis

   L’évènement de fierté trans à Londres était distinct du défilé officiel
   de la fierté de Londres, qui s’était déroulé la semaine précédente, le
   2 juillet. Ces dernières années, les critiques ont déploré le fait que
   l’événement néglige les personnes transgenres et qu’il exclue les Noirs
   et les autres minorités britanniques. En 2021, le conseil consultatif
   des organisateurs a démissionné, affirmant qu’il existait un
   « environnement hostile » aux bénévoles non blancs.

   Dans les pays où les évènements de la fierté existent depuis longtemps,
   notamment au Canada, aux États-Unis et dans de nombreuses régions
   d’Europe, les défilés officiels ont récemment été critiqués pour leur
   dépolitisation. Selon les critiques, ces évènements ont perdu de vue
--
   relations publiques pour les entreprises sponsors.

   La résurgence en 2020 du mouvement Black Lives Matter a contraint les
   événements de la fierté établis à reconnaître les intersections entre
   le genre, l’identité sexuelle et la race, et à faire face aux
   structures de pouvoir qui nient les droits non seulement des personnes
   LGBTQI+, mais aussi des Noirs et d’autres groupes marginalisés. Les
   officiers de police LGBTQI+ étaient devenus des participants visibles
   aux marches des fiertés à Londres, mais en 2022, les organisateurs ont
   interdit la participation des officiers en uniforme, en réaction aux
   récentes révélations sur le racisme systémique, l’homophobie et la
   misogynie au sein des forces de police britanniques.

   Des événements plus radicaux, comme la fierté trans, se sont multipliés
   en réaction à cette situation. C’est également le cas à New York, où la
   marche de la libération queer a eu lieu le 26 juin, le lendemain de
   l’évènement de la fierté à New York. Organisée par la Reclaim Pride
   Coalition, créée à l’occasion du 50e anniversaire de Stonewall en 2019,
   afin de ramener la politique dans l’évènement de la fierté, l’objectif
   de la marche cette année était d’attirer l’attention sur les personnes
   de couleur qui seront les plus touchées par la perte du droit à
   l’avortement, ainsi que sur la nécessité de garantir à chaque individu
--
   comptait 700 personnes. La veille de l’événement officiel, le 1^er
   juillet, les vétérans de la manifestation qui avaient défilé en 1972
   sous la bannière du Front de libération homosexuelle, ont à nouveau
   parcouru l’itinéraire original, appelant à un évènement de la fierté
   ouvert à tous, sans parrainage d’entreprise et dans lequel les droits
   humains seraient au premier plan.

Voter avec fierté à São Paulo

   La politique s’est également de nouveau invitée lors de l’évènement de
   la fierté de São Paulo, au Brésil, qui représente depuis longtemps l’un
   des plus grands événements LGBTQI+ au monde, auquel participent
   généralement des millions de personnes. Comme à New York, il s’agissait
   du premier défilé de la fierté gaie en personne de São Paulo depuis le
   début de la pandémie et a été marqué par le fait que le Brésil sera
   bientôt confronté à une décision cruciale.

--
   anti-avortement et anti-LGBTQI+.

   Pour cette raison, la marche de São Paulo est arrivée à point nommé.
   Organisée sous le slogan « Votez avec fierté, pour des politiques qui
   nous représentent », l’objectif était de montrer que les personnes
   LGBTQI+ peuvent se mobiliser en grand nombre et que les responsables
   politiques doivent les écouter. Les participants ont exigé que
--
   xénophobie politisée, et cette situation ne peut qu’aggraver les
   tensions pour les personnes LGBTQI+. L’année dernière, Erdoğan a
   déclaré que les personnes LGBTQI+ n’existaient pas en Turquie. En
   cohérence avec cette attitude de déni, les événements de la fierté ont
   été interdits et impitoyablement réprimés dans le pays ces dernières
   années.

   L’évènement de la fierté d’Istanbul, qui s’est tenu pour la première
   fois en 2003, est la première et la plus grande manifestation de ce
   type dans un pays à majorité musulmane. Auparavant, il s’agissait d’un
   événement majeur rassemblant des milliers de participants, mais depuis
--
   pourchassés dans les rues. Plus de 370 personnes ont été arrêtées et la
   police a empêché les médias de filmer les arrestations.

   Le mois des fiertés en Turquie a été marqué par une répression
   policière constante, notamment des violences à l’encontre de militants.
   La police a également empêché des personnes d’apporter des drapeaux
   arc-en-ciel et d’autres emblèmes LGBTQI+ à des événements organisés
--
   À Bangkok, il aura fallu attendre encore plus longtemps pour que des
   personnes descendent dans les rues pour manifester. Le 5 juin, la
   capitale thaïlandaise a accueilli son premier événement officiel de la
   fierté depuis plus de 15 ans, sous le slogan de Naruemit Pride, mot
   thaï signifiant « création ».

   Dans l’intervalle, la Thaïlande a été gouvernée pendant cinq ans par
--
   droits humains.

   Ce contexte peut sembler peu prometteur pour une manifestation de la
   fierté, ce qui rend la justement d’autant plus importante. L’événement
   a été possible parce que Bangkok a un nouveau gouverneur politiquement
   indépendant, Chadchart Sittipunt, qui a remporté les élections par une
   victoire écrasante en mai. Connu pour être un défenseur des droits
--
   Un évènement qui a lieu en Norvège, pays généralement considéré comme
   l’un des pays européens offrant les protections juridiques les plus
   solides en matière de droits LGBTQI+, a rappelé l’existence de ces
   difficultés persistantes. La veille des festivités de la fierté d’Oslo,
   le 25 juin, un homme armé a attaqué un bar gay bien connu, tuant deux
   personnes et en blessant de nombreuses autres. La police a déclaré
   qu’elle pensait qu’il s’agissait d’une attaque terroriste.

   Pour des raisons de sécurité, la parade officielle de la fierté a été
   annulée, mais des milliers de personnes ont tout de même défilé, à la
   fois pour pleurer les morts et en signe de défiance, en insistant sur
   le fait qu’elles ne se laisseraient pas intimider dans la sphère
--
   le sol en l’honneur des victimes et ont promis de poursuivre cette
   lutte, qui reste essentielle, partout dans le monde. De la Norvège au
   Brésil et des États-Unis à la Thaïlande, les manifestations de la
   fierté sont toujours aussi nécessaires et importantes.

NOS APPELS À L’ACTION

     * Les États doivent permettre la tenue d’événements liés à la fierté
       et garantir la sécurité des participants.
     * Les mouvements de fierté devraient établir des liens plus forts
       avec les luttes pour les droits des femmes et les droits des Noirs
       et des autres personnes de couleur.
     * La société civile doit soutenir les luttes des personnes LGBTQI+ et
--

READ MORE

La fierté à 50 ans

   The Big Issue
   30.Jun.2022

Calendrier international de la Fierté

   IGLTA

--
   CIVICUS Lens
   21.Jun.2022

Une nouvelle facette radicale de la fierté

   CIVICUS Lens
   09.Sep.2021</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-57">
<text>     * (BUTTON) Imprimer
     * Version PDF

Jean-Yves PACE : « Quelle fierté et [quel] bonheur, j’ai pu ressentir au fond
de moi comme "Achever le rêve d’un enfant qui n’aimait pas l’école mais qui a
rencontré les bonnes personnes au cours de sa vie". »

--
   En effet la rédaction demande de la réflexion, de la concentration, de
   construire votre plan d’action dans le choix de vos sujets et tout
   simplement réapprendre et apprivoiser l’écriture de votre mémoire.
   Mais quelle fierté et de bonheur, j’ai pu ressentir au fond de moi
   comme « Achever le rêve d’un enfant qui n’aimait pas l’école mais qui a
   rencontré les bonnes personnes au cours de sa vie ».
   Ma passion, ma ténacité, mon travail et l’obtention de ce diplôme m’a</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-58">
<text>
   La culture

Réflexion sur la Fierté de 2023 : Ce que le Mois des Fiertés signifie pour
moi

   Ronan Kevitt juillet 4, 2023

   Les premières marches de la fierté ont eu lieu en juin 1970 à New York,
   Los Angeles et Chicago pour commémorer le premier anniversaire des
   émeutes de Stonewall (émeutes de 1969 contre les brutalités policières
   à l'encontre des homosexuels à Greenwich, dans Manhattan). En 2021,
   selon le rapport annuel d’ Outright International, des défilés de la
   Fierté ont été organisés dans au moins 107 pays, dont plusieurs
   auxquels j'ai participé (Dublin, Londres, Sydney).

   Au cours des cinq dernières décennies, la Fierté a fait l'objet d'un
   large éventail de définitions fondées sur une prise de conscience
   croissante et sur les progrès qui y sont associés. Pour certains, la
   Fierté est synonyme de défilés et de fêtes ( et je ne peux pas me
   rappeler de toutes celles auxquelles j'ai participé). Pour d'autres, la
   Fierté est synonyme de progrès politique et social du mouvement LGBTQ+.
   En bref, la Fierté signifie beaucoup de choses pour beaucoup de gens.

   Mais que signifie vraiment la Fierté pour moi ? Je ne me suis jamais
   posé la question.

   C'est peut-être la Fierté du parcours que j'ai eu, tant sur le plan
   personnel que professionnel. Je suis extraverti (même si cela s'estompe
   avec l'âge !), j'ai généralement des opinions tranchées et je suis un
   fervent défenseur d'un environnement inclusif mais je n'ai jamais été
--
   au sein de notre organisation et à l'extérieur à l'aide de nombreuses
   actions intéressantes en vue.

   Après le succès du premier mois des Fiertés en juin 2022, nous
   lancerons le Mois des Fiertés 2023 avec un certain nombre d'événements
   intéressants auxquels les équipes pourront participer.

   Je suis conscient que mon parcours n'est pas le même que celui de
   nombreux autres personnes. La communauté LGBTQ+ est toujours victime de
   préjugés et de discriminations. L'importance de la Fierté - et son
   origine - ne se limite pas à un événement annuel, mais l'importance du
   mois de juin, avec l'accent mis sur l'égalité, l'inclusion et
   l'appartenance, ne peut être sous-estimée et continuera, nous
--
   LGBTQ+, Barb avait un regard si accueillant et un niveau de sensibilité
   si inspirant. Elle nous manquera mais nous nous souviendrons d'elle et
   serons toujours imprégnés de son énergie. Pour lui rendre hommage en ce
   Mois des Fiertés, j'aimerais partager avec vous un extrait de notre
   2022 Pride blog qui raconte ce que le Mois des Fiertés signifiait pour
   elle :

     "La Fierté signifie pour moi pouvoir partager pleinement les joies
     et les luttes de la vie familiale comme tout le monde, sans craindre
     de conséquences économiques ou professionnelles. Parce que je peux
     le faire à Thirdera, je suis une Eranaute LGBTQ+ fière et je peux</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-59">
<text>   #publisher Je change de cap » Flux Je change de cap » Flux des
   commentaires Je change de cap » Fierté ou orgueil ? Flux des
   commentaires alternate alternate

   [tr?id=487822394922863&amp;ev=PageView&amp;noscript=1]
--

   Mai152018

Fierté ou orgueil ?

   Pourquoi se retenir autant ?!!

   Nous nous empêchons très souvent d’être fiers par peur d’être
   orgueilleux ? En effet, nous ne faisons pas assez la différence
   entre la différence entre la fierté et l’orgueil. Un bon moyen pour
   faire la différence est de se souvenir que la fierté est vécue face à
   soi-même tandis que l’orgueil est vécu face à une ou plusieurs autres
   personnes.

   La fierté nous touche en profondeur, elle rehausse notre estime de soi
   et notre valeur personnelle. Ainsi, on peut tout à fait être fier de
   l’activité que l’on mène, de la maison que l’on a, de la beauté de ses
   enfants, de sa lucidité, de son propre cheminement, de ses capacités ou
   de ses réussites… D’ailleurs, le contraire de la fierté est la honte et
   elle nous porte à vouloir cacher ce que nous faisons, pensons ou
   ressentons.

--
   sommes ou faisons mieux que les autres ou que nos connaissances sont
   plus valables que celles des autres.

   Dans la fierté, il y a de l’amour pour soi. Dans l’orgueil se cache
   la peur, en général inconsciente, de ne pas être aimé.

   Prenons l’exemple de celui qui obtient un poste de travail qu’il
   voulait depuis un certain temps. Celui qui est fier dira à ses proches
   à quel point il est fier de lui, de sa persévérance, de sa
   détermination et enfin de tout ce qu’il a fait pour y arriver.
   Lorsqu’une personne partage ce genre de succès avec fierté, elle est
   toujours bien accueillie par les autres. Ces derniers sont contents
   pour elle et la félicitent spontanément. Ils reconnaissent la valeur de
   la personne qui parle.
--

   Etes vous fier de ce que vous faites ou de ce que vous êtes ? Vous
   arrive-t-il de vous congratuler, de vous remercier ? Osez vous
   manifester cette belle fierté de vous auprès d’un proche, d’un ami,
   d’un collègue ? Peut-être craignez-vous justement de penche du mauvais
   côté… C’est justement l’intérêt de l’exercice. Si, en exprimant votre
   fierté, vos interlocuteurs se justifient de ne pas être à votre hauteur
   ou se crispe de jalousie… c’est que votre fierté est certainement
   orgueilleuse… Prendre conscience de cette réalité donne toute les clés
   pour se réajuster et exister sans le besoin de se vanter.

   De plus, vous découvrirez que même si vous ne parlez pas des choses
   dont vous êtes fiers, quelqu’un d’autre le fera pour vous, reflétant
   ainsi votre propre fierté.


   Nous pouvons aussi en parler ensemble</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-6">
<text>
     * PasseportSanté
     * Psychologie
     * La fierté

La fierté

   Vérifié le 25/02/2022 par PasseportSanté
   La fierté
   Sommaire
     * Définition
     * La différence entre la fierté et l'orgueil
     * Réhabiliter la fierté
     * La fierté au travail
     * Fierté et sentiment d’appartenance
     * La citation inspirante

   La fierté n’a pas vraiment bonne presse par les temps qui courent.
   Pourtant, à la différence de l'orgueil, c'est un plaisir lié à la
   reconnaissance de sa valeur ou à l’évaluation de son action.
   Explications dans cet article.

La fierté, qu'est-ce que c'est ?

   La fierté peut avoir différentes significations et interprétations.

Être fier de soi

   La fierté peut être un sentiment d'orgueil et de satisfaction de
   soi-même. Une personne fière est une personne qui se montre digne et
   qui mérite son accomplissement.

   Cela peut conserver une réussite professionnelle ou personnelle, par
   exemple, obtenir un diplôme ou réaliser un projet.

Avoir une grande fierté

   La fierté peut également être un trait de caractère ou la personne se
   sent supérieur aux autres. Dans ce sens, une personne fière peut être
   arrogante et remplie de dédain.

--
   question et qui pense être facilement capable de réaliser de grandes
   choses sans se comparer à autrui.

La différence entre la fierté et l'orgueil

   Contrairement à l’orgueil, la personne et l’objet à l’origine de la
   fierté sont bien dissociés. L’état positif procuré par la fierté est
   reproductible dans la mesure où cet état est lié à une action
   particulière.

   La fierté encourage donc l’action. On peut, par exemple, être fier
   d’une production artistique et avoir de ce fait envie d’être fier à
   nouveau d’une autre production.

--
   service. Pour en savoir plus et exercer vos droits , prenez
   connaissance de notre Charte de Confidentialité.

Réhabiliter la fierté

   La fierté n’a pas vraiment bonne presse par les temps qui courent.
   Pourtant, il ne s’agit ni de vanité ni d’orgueil, mais d’un plaisir lié
   à la reconnaissance de sa valeur ou à l’évaluation de son action, de
   son projet, de son œuvre.
--
   fier. Chacun peut être fier de ce qu’il a accompli dans l’ombre, dans
   la discrétion la plus totale.

La fierté au travail

   De plus en plus d’individus changent de travail, quitte à gagner moins
   d’argent, pour retrouver un travail qui les rend fiers et heureux.

   Cette fierté plus proche de l’artisanat que d’une logique de production
   centrée sur le rendement et la folle productivité, sans véritable sens
   pour l’individu.

--
   jamais été aussi menaçant, beaucoup aimeraient faire le choix de
   travailler mieux, plutôt que travailler plus.

Fierté et sentiment d’appartenance

   L’auteur Hugues Hotier met en garde les travailleurs contre ce
   « sentiment d’appartenance » prôné par les entreprises et qu’il faut
   selon lui distinguer de la fierté.

   Pour Hugues Hotier « il n’est pas inutile de rappeler que
   l’appartenance à l’organisation fait partie des moyens, sinon des fins,
--
   Taylor ».

   En clair, une méthode de management visant à recréer artificiellement
   ce sentiment de fierté.

La citation inspirante

     « Nous sommes les pantins de nos récits. Le sentiment de honte ou de
     fierté qui accable nos corps ou allège nos âmes provient de la
     représentation que nous nous faisons de nous-mêmes ». Boris Cyrulnik
     dans Mourir de dire : la honte.</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-60">
<text>    #My Happy Job » Flux My Happy Job » Flux des commentaires My Happy Job
   » Fierté au travail, ou la mission accomplie du super héros du
   quotidien Flux des commentaires alternate alternate alternate

   Facebook Instagram Linkedin Twitter Youtube
--

     * Boîte à outils

Fierté au travail, ou la mission accomplie du super héros du quotidien

   Par
   Lucie Tanneau
--
   0

   Se sentir fier de soi au travail, serait-ce une des clés de
   l’épanouissement ? A coup sûr, puisque la fierté est gage de
   motivation, de satisfaction et de cohésion. A condition de n’avoir pas
   de « fierté mal placée » comme on dit… On fait le point.

   C’est une habitude que l’on apprend peu. Si, et c’est d’actualité,
   certaines maitresses distribuent des bons points et que les diplômes
--

   La plupart des travailleurs passent d’année en année au fil des
   projets, sans étapes marquantes, si ce n’est des changements de jobs.
   Et pourtant ! A quel moment avez-vous ressenti le plus de fierté dans
   votre vie ? Prenez deux minutes de votre temps pour y réfléchir.

   Pour nombre d’entre nous, l’obtention du bac ou d’un concours d’entrée
   d’une école, la première embauche ou la signature d’un premier CDI sont
   des étapes. Des jours où la fierté se lit dans les yeux de l’entourage.
   Et qui gonflent notre confiance en nous, comme une belle performance
   sportive…

La fierté est indispensable

   La fierté est corrélée à l’estime de soi : c’est la fierté du travail
   bien fait, de la mission accomplie qui nous pousse chaque jour à
   retourner au travail, à nous remettre à l’ouvrage pour continuer les
   tâches et les terminer. Sans cela, le vide s’installe et la motivation
--
   ce que l’on apporte comme pierre à l’édifice qui permet de se sentir
   utile, et de pouvoir être fier de soi.

   Cette fierté personnelle, qui mérite d’être questionnée régulièrement
   pour se pousser soi-même, doit être complétée d’une reconnaissance
   extérieure. Nous avons tous besoin que d’autres soient également fiers
   de nous. Nos parents, conjoint(e), ami(e)s, frères, sœurs, enfants… Et
--
   faisant un zoom sur celles dont on est fier. La rentrée, ou la nouvelle
   année, peuvent être des moments propices pour repartir plein d’entrain.

   On peut aussi dire à voix haute sa fierté. Attention en revanche de ne
   pas le faire trop souvent car une fierté mal placée peut être le signe
   d’un ego trop fort, qui peut écraser les voisins…

   Pour les autres. Puisque tout le monde a besoin de se sentir fier,
   quand on est manager, ou simple collègue, on peut encourager ce
   sentiment de fierté. En félicitant un travail. En demandant à l’autre
   les dossiers qui l’ont élevé. En reconnaissant un travail
   difficile/précis/minutieux/délicat… Comme un coach sportif qui
   reconnaît les progrès, les réussites, et l’application autant que les</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-61">
<text>   prédominance sociale est source de plaisir. Mais tout le monde est doté
   d’un cerveau qui recherche le plaisir […] » Loretta Breuning
   Vous n’êtes pas seul.e ! La première aspiration professionnelle  serait
   la fierté d’appartenance à son entreprise, suivie du sens et de
   l’alignement, puis de la créativité et l’innovation. Et 93% de salariés
   affirment qu’un fort sentiment d’appartenance rime avec performance
   (étude Tendances RH 2020, Deloitte)… C’est assez pour se dire qu’il est
--
   certaine reconnaissance sociale, indispensable pour se sentir en
   sécurité au sein du groupe (et donc, de votre équipe).

   Loretta Breuning estime que la fierté fait partie des moyens d’y
   parvenir : « La fierté signifie que vous osez dire “Regardez ce que
   j’ai fait !” à un autre être vivant. La fierté est un gouvernail qui
   vous aide à naviguer parmi les opportunités vous permettant d’obtenir
   de la reconnaissance sociale. »

--
   À lire aussi : Développer et nourrir sa marque employeur : être soi,
   c’est important !

L’engagement RSE, source de fierté ?

   Voilà une belle raison d’être fier /fière, en lien avec les
   précédentes. Sur quoi votre entreprise ou votre management agit-il ?
--

   Renseignez-vous, peut-être serez-vous surpris.e de découvrir bien des
   raisons d’être fier des actions accomplies et celles programmées. Pour
   encore plus de fierté : pourquoi ne pas vous impliquer en proposant
   votre contribution ?
   À lire aussi : Politique RSE, préparez le monde d’après !

--
   concerne ? Votre taux de sérotonine a-t-il grimpé en flèche à la
   lecture de cet article ? Si oui, allez plus loin et autorisez-vous à
   partager votre satisfaction sur les réseaux sociaux, en expliquant vos
   motifs de fierté !
   Quoiqu’il en soit, ne doutez plus. Vous avez vraiment de quoi être fier
   / fière.</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-62">
<text>     *

   Accueil >gt;Actualités>gt;
   « Nos moments de fierté » : témoignages d’élèves et de personnes
   détenues

   [logo_2x.png]

   Publié le 10 janvier 2015

« Nos moments de fierté » : témoignages d’élèves et de personnes détenues

     * Partager
     * Tweeter</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-63">
<text>     * Sarthe
     * Culture
     * Patrimoine
     * Bienvenue chez vous - Fierté d'ici en Sarthe

   Patrimoine
   Bienvenue chez vous - Fierté d'ici - France Bleu Maine Bienvenue chez
   vous - Fierté d'ici - France Bleu Maine

Bienvenue chez vous - Fierté d'ici en Sarthe

   DERNIER REPLAY
   Florilège : Fort-Boyard, cinéma, humour et fierté !
   Le 22 décembre 2023
   (BUTTON)
   27 min
--
     *
     * (BUTTON)

   Notre fierté d'ici en Sarthe.

   Découvrez l'histoire de ces Sarthoises et Sarthois qui font parler
   d'eux.
   (épisodes) Épisodes Tous les épisodes

   Bienvenue chez vous - Fierté d'ici - France Bleu Maine

Florilège : Fort-Boyard, cinéma, humour et fierté !

   Le 22 décembre 2023
   (BUTTON)
   27 min
   Bienvenue chez vous - Fierté d'ici - France Bleu Maine

La Sarthe fière de "sa" Reine Bérangère ! Avec le concours de Gérard
levacher, Historien.
--
   Le 21 décembre 2023
   (BUTTON)
   28 min
   Bienvenue chez vous - Fierté d'ici - France Bleu Maine

Robin Cavaillès, Champion du Monde de beatbox !

   Le 20 décembre 2023
   (BUTTON)
   28 min
   Bienvenue chez vous - Fierté d'ici - France Bleu Maine

Invitée : Sophie MOISY, Ville du Mans – valorisation patrimoine et
rayonnement.
--
   Le 19 décembre 2023
   (BUTTON)
   27 min
   Bienvenue chez vous - Fierté d'ici - France Bleu Maine

Didier Béoutis : Président Amicale des anciens du Lycée Montesquieu.

   Le 18 décembre 2023
   (BUTTON)
   28 min
   Bienvenue chez vous - Fierté d'ici - France Bleu Maine

Le florilège du vendredi : Le Mans années 70, paroles de grands patrons et
charmes de La Sarthe.
--
   Le 15 décembre 2023
   (BUTTON)
   27 min
   Bienvenue chez vous - Fierté d'ici - France Bleu Maine

Joseph Guilleux, redécouvreur de l'enceinte romaine du Mans.

   Le 14 décembre 2023
   (BUTTON)
   27 min
   Bienvenue chez vous - Fierté d'ici - France Bleu Maine

François Bruère, peintre officiel des 24 Heures du Mans.</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-7">
<text>    2. Découvrir
    3. Dictionnaire
    4. f
    5. fierté

   Dictionnaire
   ____________________________________________________________
   (Valider) Valider

fierté

   définition synonyme

Définition "fierté"

   n.f.
    1. Dignité, noblesse.
--

   n.
     * Satisfaction de soi-même, sentiment élevé de dignité; amour-propre,
       fierté.

Synonyme "fierté"

   n.f.</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-8">
<text>
     * Texte 1

fierté

   (BUTTON)
     * Accueil
--

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

FIERTÉ

   nom féminin
   Étymologie : xi^e siècle, fiertet. Issu du latin feritas, « cruauté »,
   dérivé de ferus, « sauvage ».
   1.  Class. Courage, intrépidité.
   2.  Vif sentiment qu’on a de son mérite, de sa dignité. Une noble
   fierté. Un homme plein de fierté, sans fierté. Parler avec fierté.
   Souffrir dans sa fierté. Fierté d’âme, de caractère. Par métonymie. La
   fierté du maintien, du regard, des manières.
   3.  Péj. Attitude hautaine, méprisante, distante. Montrer de la fierté
   envers ses inférieurs, à l’égard de ses inférieurs. Être empli d’une
   sotte, d’une arrogante fierté.
   4.  Satisfaction d’amour-propre, contentement parfois teinté d’orgueil.
   Un sujet, un objet de fierté. Tirer une légitime fierté de son succès.
   Il en a conçu une juste fierté. Parler avec fierté de ses enfants. Son
   domaine fait sa fierté et, par métonymie, est sa fierté. Mettre sa
   fierté dans l’accomplissement d’une tâche.
   Vous pouvez cliquer sur n’importe quel mot pour naviguer dans le
   dictionnaire.

--
     * fiérot, -ote, adj.
     * fiertable, adj. [4^e édition]
     * fierte, n. f. [7^e édition]
     * fierté [I], n. f.
     * fierté, ée [II], adj. [5^e édition]
     * fièvre, n. f.
     * fiévreusement, adv.
     * fiévreux, -euse, adj.
--

HISTOIRE DU MOT

     * fierté, n. f. [1^re édition]
     * fierté, n. f. [2^e édition]
     * fierté, n. f. [3^e édition]
     * fierté, n. f. [4^e édition]
     * fierté [I], n. f. [5^e édition]
     * fierté, n. f. [6^e édition]
     * fierté, n. f. [7^e édition]
     * fierté, n. f. [8^e édition]
     * fierté, n. f.

HISTORIQUE DE CONSULTATION

     * fierté, n. f.

     * Académie française
     * Aide en ligne</text>
</page> §
<page="fr1-9">
<text>    2. Workers
    3. Média

Comment gérer sa fierté au travail ?

   25 nov. 2019

--
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)

   Comment gérer sa fierté au travail ?
   auteur.e
   Nora Léon
   Nora Léon
--

   Cependant, est-il sain de se laisser atteindre par des comportements de
   collègues ou des situations professionnelles qui nous déplaisent ? La
   fierté mal placée n’est-elle pas contre-productive voire paralysante ?
   Et d’ailleurs, notre ego a-t-il sa place au boulot ? Voici l’analyse de
   deux psychologues du travail sur la fierté en entreprise, et quelques
   conseils pour canaliser son ego parfois malmené.

Fierté vertueuse / ego paralysant

   La fierté, qu’on peut aussi associer à l’ego ou encore lier à l’estime
   de soi, est ambivalente, assure Benjamin Aubert. Pour ce psychologue du
   travail, coach, formateur, et spécialiste en communication non
   violente, deux éléments sont à distinguer :
     * La fierté liée à son activité, grâce à laquelle on est heureux et
       comblé d’exercer son métier. C’est indépendant de son poste, niveau
       de hiérarchie et secteur : Benjamin insiste en effet sur le fait
       qu’un directeur du CAC40 comme une technicienne de surface peuvent
       et ont tout intérêt à être fiers d’un travail bien fait.
     * Et la fierté qui concerne sa personne, beaucoup plus liée à l’ego.
       Là, Benjamin assure qu’il faut y être attentif, car c’est celle qui
       peut engendrer des conflits, des affrontements et un mal-être, par
       exemple si un employé se définit comme le meilleur dans un poste et
       refuse donc qu’un collègue ait de meilleurs résultats.

La fierté peut donc être motrice ou destructrice

   Bien maniée, elle est vertueuse et même nécessaire. Pour Benjamin
   Aubert, « être fier de son travail est déterminant, car si on n’est pas
   fier de ce qu’on accomplit, c’est difficile de rester motivé. Sans
   fierté, on n’a plus de sens dans ce qu’on fait, et il est donc ardu de
   maintenir son activité à long-terme. Bien utilisée, elle peut être
   source de motivation : c’est une énergie, un moteur, de se dire qu’on
   veut mener à bien ce projet, qu’on en est capable et qu’on sera fier du
   résultat obtenu. »

     « Sans fierté, on n’a plus de sens dans ce qu’on fait, et il est
     donc ardu de maintenir son activité à long-terme » Benjamin Aubert,
     psychologue du travail.

   Anne Blondel, elle aussi psychologue du travail et ancienne RH,
   renchérit : « la fierté est corrélée à l’estime de soi. Si j’ai le
   sentiment d’avoir fait un travail de qualité, je vais créer un cercle
   vertueux, être plus motivée, créative et innovante. Ce sentiment peut
   et doit être appuyé par les entreprises via les managers. En effet,
--

   Quand, au contraire, on laisse son ego prendre le pas et tenir le
   gouvernail de ses émotions, on s’expose à des conséquences fâcheuses.
   C’est le côté sombre de la fierté, dont Benjamin Aubert nous rappelle
   l’étymologie : « Du provençal feritat, ferdad, fertat et du latin
   ferus, la fierté désigne au départ uniquement des proies de chasse
   sauvages, farouches, intrépides et violentes. » On comprend mieux
   pourquoi la fierté mal placée peut amener un collègue à défendre son
   territoire, agresser ses pairs ou entrer dans une spirale de
   compétition malsaine. Pour Anne Blondel, ces situations peuvent
   notamment survenir lorsque les tâches ou la communication sont mal
--
   entre les équipes et des frictions entre les collaborateurs. »

   Pour ces deux experts, tout est une question de dosage. Pour Anne,
   laisser s’exprimer sa fierté est utile et crée une énergie vertueuse
   pour soi et les autres. « Mais le faire à l’excès, à chaque action, est
   contre-productif et engendre de l’agacement chez les autres »
   note-t-elle.

Quelques clés pour canaliser sa fierté

   Benjamin Aubert note que la fierté n’est ni positive, ni négative en
   soi, tout dépend de la manière dont elle est utilisée. Nos deux experts
   nous donnent les clés pour l’apprivoiser, personnellement mais aussi en
   tant que manager.
--
       travailler son assertivité à l’aide d’une simple mise en situation
       : lui prendre son téléphone. Son client a ainsi appris à s’affirmer
       sans violence et à poser des limites nécessaires et légitimes.
       Quant à Anne, elle rappelle l’importance de la fierté comme
       boussole, pour être respecté : « quand quelqu’un ne vous parle pas
       correctement, qu’on vous donne uniquement des tâches
       inintéressantes, la fierté ébranlée peut être un baromètre pour
       parler à son manager et rééquilibrer la justice au travail »
       assure-t-elle. Dans ce cas-là, il faut noter les faits et les
       exposer de manière assertive pour avoir gain de cause. Un discours
--
       Benjamin Aubert le note : certaines détresses au travail découlent
       en partie du fait que l’employé donne beaucoup sans être remercié
       et valorisé en retour. Or, Benjamin conseille d’être plus
       indépendant dans sa fierté : « il faut apprendre à être fier de son
       travail même si autrui ne le reconnaît pas à sa juste valeur. À
       partir du moment où l’on n’a plus besoin du regard des autres pour
       se sentir valorisé, celui-ci nous touche moins. Il ne s’agit en
--
       travail, nos deux experts accueillent des personnes en situation de
       grande détresse voire d’épuisement au travail. Et Benjamin n’hésite
       pas à appuyer sur le fait que si un employeur ou manager malmène
       trop la fierté d’une personne, cela peut aller jusqu’au harcèlement
       moral, voire au burn-out. « Au moment où ça devient inacceptable
       pour soi, par rapport à ses valeurs et par rapport à ses choix,
       c’est important d’en discuter avec des personnes de confiance et de
       prendre une décision personnelle. Car le risque, quand il n’y a
       plus d’appréciation des autres mais qu’on reste néanmoins très
       impliqué dans son travail, est petit à petit de tomber dans le
       burn-out. Alors, conclut-il, notre fierté écornée est un signe à
       prendre au sérieux : car la bonne décision peut aussi être de
       quitter une entreprise au climat toxique. »

--
       collaboration : cet appel ne doit donc pas rester lettre morte.
     * 4. Miser sur les réussites collectives. Benjamin Aubert propose,
       notamment pour les commerciaux, d’installer des bonus et primes
       d’équipe plutôt que de les individualiser. « La fierté ne disparaît
       pas, mais elle concerne alors l’élan commun et est d’autant plus
       productive qu’une dynamique de groupe s’installe » assure-t-il.
     * 5. Être un médiateur juste et bienveillant dans le cas de conflits
--
   comme un pou sur l’épaule d’un prêtre”, apparue au Moyen-âge et
   désignant contre toute attente le pouil (le coq en ancien français et
   absolument pas le pou), nous rappelle que les petites et grandes
   fiertés ne datent pas d’hier et ne sont donc pas près de disparaître.
   En entreprise, il faut donc composer avec elles, tant comme salarié que
   comme manager ou encore dirigeant. Cependant, à la lecture de cet
   article, vous aurez remarqué que loin d’être paralysante, elle peut
--
   Photo d’illustration by WTTJ
   Les thématiques abordées
   Bien-être psychique
   Comment gérer sa fierté au travail ?

   auteur.e
   Nora Léon</text>
</page> §
</lang>
<lang="fr2">
<page="fr2-1">
<text>
     * EN ES DE IT

   Accueil >gt;Langue française >gt; Dictionnaire >gt; orgueil
   Accueil >gt; langue française >gt; dictionnaire >gt; orgueil n.m.
     * Définitions
     * Difficultés
     * Citations
--
   +
   

 orgueil

   nom masculin

   (francique *urgôli)
     * 1. Sentiment exagéré de sa propre valeur, estime excessive de
       soi-même, qui porte à se mettre au-dessus des autres : Être bouffi
       d'orgueil.
       Synonymes :
       arrogance - fatuité - hauteur - infatuation - mégalomanie - morgue
       - présomption - prétention - suffisance - superbe (littéraire)
       Contraires :
       humilité - modestie - simplicité
     * 2. Sentiment de dignité, fierté légitime, amour-propre : Cacher sa
       misère par orgueil.
       Synonymes :
       amour-propre - fierté - gloriole - vanité
     * 3. Personne ou chose, sujet de légitime fierté : Il est l'orgueil
       de la famille.
       Synonymes :
       fleuron - gloire - honneur - ornement
--
   VOUS CHERCHEZ PEUT-ÊTRE
     __________________________________________________________________

   orgueil n.m.

   Sentiment exagéré de sa propre valeur, estime excessive de soi-même...
     __________________________________________________________________
--
   autres résultats
     __________________________________________________________________

   Être bouffi d'orgueil
   Rabaisser l'orgueil, les prétentions de quelqu'un
   

Difficultés de orgueil

     * ORTHOGRAPHE
       Attention à la place du u, après le g et avant le e, pour avoir le
--

   

Citations avec orgueil

     * Henri Frédéric Amiel (Genève 1821-Genève 1881)
       Il y a deux degrés d'orgueil : l'un où l'on s'approuve soi-même ;
       l'autre où l'on ne peut s'accepter. Celui-ci est probablement le
       plus raffiné.
       Journal intime, 27 octobre 1853
     * Georges Bataille (Billom 1897-Paris 1962)
       L'orgueil est la même chose que l'humilité : c'est toujours le
       mensonge.
       Le Coupable, Gallimard
     * René Daumal (Boulzicourt, Ardennes, 1908-Paris 1944)
       Dieu est nommé pour le seul être que l'on puisse adorer en soi sans
       être enchaîné par l'orgueil.
       Lettres à ses amis, Gallimard
     * Gustave Flaubert (Rouen 1821-Croisset, près de Rouen, 1880)
       Académie française, 1880
       Le comble de l'orgueil, c'est de se mépriser soi-même.
       Carnets
     * saint François de Sales (château de Sales, près de Thorens, Savoie,
       1567-Lyon 1622)
       Les scrupules sont fils de l'orgueil le plus fin.
       Maximes, sentences et pensées
     * Jean Genet (Paris 1910-Paris 1986)
       Mon orgueil s'est coloré avec la pourpre de ma honte.
       Journal du voleur, Gallimard
     * Sacha Guitry (Saint-Pétersbourg 1885-Paris 1957)
       La vanité, c'est l'orgueil des autres.
       Jusqu'à nouvel ordre, M. de Brunhoff
     * Marcel Jouhandeau (Guéret 1888-Rueil-Malmaison 1979)
       La modestie n'est qu'une sorte de pudeur de l'orgueil.
       De la grandeur, Grasset
     * Robert Mallet (1915-2002)
       On s'humilie par orgueil. On accepte d'être humilié par humilité.
       Apostilles, Gallimard
     * Marc Aurèle en latin Marcus Annius Verus, puis Marcus Aurelius
       Antoninus (Rome 121-Vindobona 180)
       empereur romain
       Recevoir sans bouffée d'orgueil, perdre sans déchirement.
       Pensées, VIII, 33 (traduction A. I. Trannoy)
     * Paul Masson (1849-1896)
       Il y a des gens qui ne dépouillent jamais leur orgueil. Leurs
       fautes, s'ils les passent en revue, c'est à cheval.
       Cité par Willy dans l'Année fantaisiste, 1893
     * Pierre Nicole (Chartres 1625-Paris 1695)
       On peut désirer par amour-propre d'être délivré de l'amour-propre,
       comme l'on peut souhaiter l'humilité par orgueil.
       Essais de morale, Des diverses manières dont on tente Dieu
     * Charles-Louis Philippe (Cérilly, Allier, 1874-Paris 1909)
       […] L'orgueil est plein de silence […].
       Lettres de Jeunesse, Lettre à Mme Kenty , Gallimard
     * Pierre Reverdy (Narbonne 1889-Solesmes 1960)
       C'est l'orgueil qui fait dire non, et la faiblesse oui. La modestie
       peut également dire les deux sans passion.
       En vrac, Éditions du Rocher
     * Pierre Reverdy (Narbonne 1889-Solesmes 1960)
       On est orgueilleux par nature, modeste par nécessité.
       En vrac, Éditions du Rocher
     * Antoine Rivaroli, dit le Comte de Rivarol (Bagnols-sur-Cèze
       1753-Berlin 1801)
       La vanité fait plus d'heureux que l'orgueil.
       Discours sur l'homme intellectuel et moral
     * Ivan Sergueïevitch Tourgueniev (Orel 1818-Bougival 1883)
       La pitié sans orgueil n'appartient qu'à la femme.
       Étranges Histoires, l'Abandonnée
     * Paul Valéry (Sète 1871-Paris 1945)
       Le plus farouche orgueil naît surtout à l'occasion d'une
       impuissance.
       Moralités, Gallimard

Mots proches

   orgueil
   -
   orgueilleusement
   -
   orgueilleux
   -
   orgye
   -</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-10">
<text>   #Orthodidacte » Flux Orthodidacte » Flux des commentaires Orthodidacte
   » Décortiquons le mot « Orgueil » Flux des commentaires alternate
   alternate alternate

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-PCS9SRD
--
     * Mon panier
     * Se connecter à la plateforme e-learning

Décortiquons le mot « Orgueil »

Le mot du champion

Décortiquons le mot « Orgueil »

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/9lyMy0uAFjk?feature=oembed

Décortiquons le mot « Orgueil »

L’origine

   Le mot orgueil vient d’un mot francique signifiant « fierté ».

   Orgueil, en français, désigne en effet l’estime exagérée de soi, le
   sentiment d’être supérieur. Citons quelques synonymes d’orgueil : la
   fierté, la superbe, l’arrogance, la prétention, la vanité.

   Les contraires d’orgueil sont l’humilité, la modestie, la réserve.

   Exemples : c’est plein d’orgueil qu’il nous a montré ses diplômes, un
   orgueil mal placé le pousse sans cesse à faire étalage de ses qualités.

La difficulté

--
   Mais, pour éviter la prononciation défectueuse *[ɔʁʒœj] qu’imposerait
   le g devant euil, les lettres e et u sont inversées, de sorte à avoir
   un u immédiatement après le g et produire ainsi le son [g]. On écrit
   donc orgueil. Précisons qu’il s’agit de permuter les lettres e et u et
   non pas d’insérer un u supplémentaire immédiatement après le g, auquel
   cas on aurait *orgueuil avec deux u. Ce serait certes correct
   phonétiquement, mais l’histoire en a décidé autrement, comme nous
--

Dans la même famille

   On trouve seulement les mots orgueilleux, l’adjectif, qui fait
   orgueilleuse au féminin, orgueilleusement, l’adverbe, et s’enorgueillir
   de quelque chose, un verbe signifiant « tirer une fierté de quelque
   chose ». Exemple : je m’enorgueillis de vous avoir tenus en haleine
   jusqu’à la fin de cette explication !

Le saviez-vous ?

   On a écrit sueil, dueil, cerfueil, fueille, et aussi orgueil, accueil,
   cueillir, la graphie ue ayant noté le son [œ] dans tous ces mots
   jusqu’au xvii^e siècle. Ensuite, la graphie eu a remplacé ue, sauf dans
   les mots comportant cueil et gueil, pour la raison que nous avons
--
   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/-WOaUUHezSw?feature=oembed

   Décortiquons le mot
   « Orgueil »2018-04-172021-05-06/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/logo-orthodi
   dacte-1.pngOrthodidacte/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/026_orgueil_def_thum
   b.jpg200px200px

   Se Former</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-11">
<text>     * Menu
     * Pied de page

   L’orgueil : péché ou qualité ?
     * (BUTTON) Menu
     * (BUTTON) Radios
          +
--
     * Musique
     * Vie quotidienne

   L'orgueil ©Getty - Joos Mind L'orgueil ©Getty - Joos Mind
   (BUTTON)

L’orgueil : péché ou qualité ?

   Samedi 9 juillet 2022
   (BUTTON)
   écouter  (53 min)
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
   L'orgueil ©Getty - Joos Mind
   Publicité
   Publicité
   Publicité
--
   Provenant du podcast Vices et vertus
   (BUTTON)

Des sept péchés capitaux, la doctrine chrétienne considère l’orgueil comme le
plus important, le plus grave de tous parce que ce sentiment de supériorité
pousserait celui ou celle qui en est atteint, à se placer au-dessus des
autres, et ultimement à s’élever au-dessus de Dieu.

   Longtemps condamné par l’Église catholique, l’orgueil serait, selon
   certains chercheurs scientifiques, aussi essentiel à la survie humaine
   que la faim, la peur et la libido.

   Péché ou qualité… Chose certaine, l’orgueil charrie avec lui ses frères
   et sœurs, plus ou moins sympathiques : l’arrogance, la fierté, la
   vanité, l’estime de soi, la prétention, la dignité, le snobisme… et il
   est sans doute le péché le plus pratiqué de notre époque.
--

   Patrice Leconte : « Personne ne détient LA vérité »

   Pour le réalisateur : « L'orgueil des pas n'est pas garant de talent,
   pas du tout ! Il y a des tas de gens qui ont un talent fou mais qui ne
   sont pas orgueilleux pour autant. L'orgueil consiste souvent à penser
   détenir la vérité. J'ai une sainte horreur de ces personnes, de ceux
   qui ont raison quoi qu'il arrive, de ceux qui ont l'orgueil d'avoir
   raison, ça me dévaste. Je change de trottoir quand je rencontre des
   orgueilleux. J'ai travaillé, heureusement rarement, avec des acteurs ou
   actrices qui pensaient avoir raison. Mais en fait, personne n’a raison,
   personne ne détient la vérité et si on est là, on se trompe, on avance
   ensemble et puis on tâtonne. Mais de dire : "Attendez les gars,
   poussez-vous, moi j'ai raison, je sais", ça, c'est très orgueilleux et
   très détestable. »

   Laure Adler : « L'orgueil est pathétique et super ringard »

   Pour la présentatrice Laure Adler : « Je ne sais pas qui peut être
   orgueilleux, orgueilleux pour moi. Je ne sais pas. J'ai l'image d'un
   coq au milieu d'une basse-cour et qui qui fait "cocorico" au milieu de
   poules terrifiées. Et c'est nous les poules. J'espère que l’orgueil va
   disparaître parce que c'est tellement pathétique et super ringard. »

   Jean-Philippe Baril Guérard : « Un péché mal vu, mais ce n'est pas
   mérité »

   Pour le romancier : « Si on faisait une réforme du système des péchés
   capitaux, l'orgueil, c'est celui que j'enlèverais. Être orgueilleux
   c'est être capable de faire face aux conséquences de ses actes,
   d’assumer ce qu'on fait, d'être fier, de défendre ses idées... Oui, ça
   a un côté négatif, absolument. Mais moi, je trouve que ce péché
   a mauvaise presse, mais ce n'est pas mérité. Celui qui crache sur
   l'orgueil commet un autre péché : celui de l'envie. »

   La suite est à écouter...

--
     * France Inter
     * Podcasts
     * Vices et vertus
     * L’orgueil : péché ou qualité ?

   pixel
   La radio</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-12">
<text>   Dictionnaire
   orgueil_____________ [btn-recherche-vocal.jpg]-Submit [Dictionnaire]
   [btn-recherche.png]-Submit

Définition orgueil

   Citations Synonymes Définition
   Orgueil (Nom commun)
   [ɔʁ.ɡœj] / Masculin
     * Vanité qui porte à se mettre au-dessus des autres. Opinion très
       avantageuse, le plus souvent exagérée, qu'une personne a de sa
--
     * Légitime fierté qui éloigne de la bassesse.

   Informations complémentaires
   L'orgueil est un sentiment de fierté excessive de soi-même, de son
   statut ou de ses réalisations. Il est souvent considéré comme un défaut
   car il peut mener à une arrogance ou un mépris envers les autres. Les
   personnes orgueilleuses peuvent avoir une estime de soi démesurée, ne
   pas reconnaître leurs erreurs et refuser de demander de l'aide ou des
   conseils. Elles peuvent également chercher à dominer les autres et à
   être au centre de l'attention, ce qui peut entraîner des conflits
   relationnels. Cependant, l'orgueil peut aussi être vu comme une source
   de motivation pour atteindre ses objectifs et se surpasser. Un certain
   niveau d'orgueil peut donc être bénéfique dans certaines situations,
   mais il est important de trouver un équilibre pour ne pas tomber dans
   l'arrogance et le mépris des autres. La reconnaissance de ses propres
   limites et l'humilité sont des traits de caractère importants pour
   maintenir un équilibre sain de l'orgueil.
   [INS: :INS]

   Dictionnaire >gt; Définition >gt; orgueil
   Navigation alphabétique | Informations &amp; définitions | Annuaire de
   dictionnaires
   Copyright © Dictionnaire de définitions et synonymes Tous droits</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-13">
<text>
   A chaque mot son synonyme!

Synonyme >gt; Orgueil

   Trouver le synonyme de

--

   (BUTTON) Ok

Synonymes de orgueil

     * ambition
     * amour-propre
--
     * supériorité
     * superbe

   Antonymes de orgueil

Il y a 33 synonymes de orgueil

     * Dictionnaire des synonymes pour vous aider à trouver le meilleur
       synonyme
--
     * CGU
     * Contact

   Synonyme de orgueil présenté par Synonymo.fr © 2024 - Ces synonymes du
   mot orgueil sont donnés à titre indicatif. L'utilisation du service de
   dictionnaire des synonymes orgueil est gratuite et réservée à un usage
   strictement personnel. Les synonymes du mot orgueil présentés sur ce
   site sont édités par l’équipe éditoriale de synonymo.fr

   Horaire des Marées - Mon controle technique pas cher - Laboratoire
   d'Analyses Médicales.fr

Définition orgueil

   Retrouver la définition du mot orgueil avec le Larousse

   A lire également la définition du terme orgueil sur le ptidico.com

Conjugaison orgueil

   Retrouver la conjugaison du verbe orgueil sur conjugons.fr

Dictionnaire des synonymes</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-14">
<text>    1. Actualité
    2. Religion

L’orgueil, un des péchés capitaux

   L’orgueil est l’un des sept péchés capitaux. Entretien avec le P.
   Olivier Turbat, prêtre de la communauté du Chemin-Neuf.
     * Recueilli par Céline Hoyeau,
     * le 08/03/2019 à 09:01
     * Modifié le 18/03/2019 à 10:23

   Lecture en 5 min.
   L’orgueil, un des péchés capitaux

   L’orgueil, un des péchés capitaux
   ×
   Pere-Olivier-Turbat_0

--
       Twitter

Parler des péchés capitaux est déjà un exercice difficile… Peut-on parler de
l’orgueil sans orgueil ?

   Père Olivier Turbat : Il y a quelques années, si on m’avait proposé de
   faire une double page dans La Croix avec en gros titre « L’orgueil » et
   ma photo en dessous, j’aurais hésité. Mais maintenant, je m’en fiche
   complètement (rires) !

--
   me suffisaient en quelque sorte. Je comptais sur mes propres forces,
   mon propre discernement. J’existais à travers cela.

C’est cela, l’orgueil ?

   Père O. T. : Oui, l’orgueil, c’est se chercher soi-même. Suivre sa
   volonté personnelle comme s’il n’y avait qu’elle. Et poser soi-même les
   critères de perfection. (Il montre la page 281 de son journal spirituel
   :)« Dépenser toute l’énergie qu’on a à essayer de correspondre à une
--

   Père O. T. : Oui, je crois. C’est important car sinon l’adversaire
   reste caché et on ne peut pas mener le combat. La stratégie de
   l’orgueil, c’est de se cacher, on a honte de parler franchement de sa
   soif de pouvoir. Nommer l’orgueil, c’est commencer à laisser la grâce
   le détruire.

Faut-il un accident pour en guérir ?

   Père O. T. : Non, ça ne marche pas ! Alors que je ne peux plus lire,
   écrire, on pourrait croire que l’orgueil a disparu. Mais il reste
   encore un combat quotidien. J’ai encore du mal à renoncer à ma volonté
   propre… Même si je perçois tout de suite, aujourd’hui, ces mouvements
   faux en moi dès qu’ils surgissent.

Comment, alors, guérir de l’orgueil ?

   Père O. T. :On s’en fout de guérir ou pas de l’orgueil ! Le but c’est
   de laisser la place à la relation. Savoir dépendre des autres. Ce sont
   les autres, mes frères et sœurs de communauté à Hautecombe, qui sont
   venus vers moi, qui ont pris de mes nouvelles, m’ont encouragé. On m’a
--
   importante, qu’il fallait que je sois avec eux. Or, le Christ me l’a
   dit. C’est vraiment ma place. Il faut que je reste avec eux, même si ce
   n’est pas comme avant. » Finalement, être fidèle à la parole des frères
   plutôt qu’à mon propre ressenti. L’orgueil surgit quand les choses ne
   vont pas comme on veut. L’antidote de l’orgueil, c’est l’abandon
   confiant.

Comment regardez-vous l’avenir ?
--
   », dit Mère Teresa. En fait je ne sais pas comment Dieu m’utilise mais
   je sais qu’il le fait.

Le manque d’estime ou d’amour de soi est souvent un orgueil caché. Comment
s’aimer sans orgueil ?

   Père O. T. : Au début, on cherche à être parfait. Ensuite, on fait
   l’expérience de la miséricorde. Ultimement, on ne se pose plus la
   question. Je sais que l’orgueil est toujours là, mais j’ai choisi de ne
   pas m’en préoccuper. J’apprends à me détacher même de mon propre péché.
   C’est tout l’enseignement de sainte Thérèse de Lisieux.

   S’aimer sans orgueil, c’est ne plus trop se soucier de soi. Même guérir
   de l’orgueil n’est plus trop le problème. Le but, c’est de se laisser
   aimer complètement par Dieu. (Il pointe les pages 279-280 :) « Se
   déposséder de la manière dont Dieu va s’y prendre pour nous purifier,
   c’est son problème et plus le nôtre. » Il n’y a pas de réponse face au
   mal, face à l’orgueil mais il y a une présence discrète à mes côtés,
   celle de Jésus.

   Une écothéologie pour les croyants… et pour les autres</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-15">
<text>   (BUTTON) Inspirez-moi !
     * Accueil
     * Pôle Fiction
     * Orgueil et préjugés

   Orgueil et préjugés - Jane Austen Orgueil et préjugés - Jane Austen
   (BUTTON)
   Feuilleter
   Feuilleter
--
   à partir de 13 ans
   (BUTTON) Ma liste

Orgueil et préjugés

   (BUTTON) Ma liste
   Jane Austen n'a pas son pareil pour sonder la turbulence des cœurs, et</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-16">
<text>   #Implications philosophiques » Flux Implications philosophiques » Flux
   des commentaires Implications philosophiques » L’orgueil Flux des
   commentaires alternate alternate alternate

     *
--

   7 péchés capitauxuneVaria

L’orgueil

   26 décembre 20165966 views8
   Print Friendly, PDF &amp; Email

              L’orgueil, ou l’art d’être un gros connard


      Florian Cova –  Centre Interfacultaire en Sciences Affectives,
                           Université de Genève

   Résumé : L’orgueil est traditionnellement considéré comme un vice
   moral. On considère aussi qu’il est lié au fait de se considérer comme
   meilleur que les autres. Ces deux propriétés, quoique évidentes, ne
   sont pas forcément simples à concilier : se croire meilleur que les
--
   « connard » : est un connard celui qui pense non seulement qu’il est
   doté de qualités que les autres n’ont pas, mais pensent aussi que cela
   lui donne le droit de ne pas respecter leurs intérêts. J’en conclue
   naturellement que l’orgueil est tout simplement le fait d’être un gros
   connard.

   Abstract : Pride is traditionally viewed as a moral vice. It is also
--
   I conclude that pride (understood as a vice) simply amounts to being a
   big asshole.

   L’orgueil fait originellement partie des sept péchés capitaux
   répertoriés par l’Eglise Catholique et il continue encore aujourd’hui à
   avoir mauvaise presse : dire de quelqu’un qu’il est « orgueilleux »,
   voire « bouffi d’orgueil » n’est pas forcément un compliment. De plus,
   l’orgueil semble constituer pour les gens qui le condamnent une faute
   proprement morale – être orgueilleux, ce n’est pas simplement être
   ridicule ou stupide, mais s’exposer au blâme de ses congénères. En
   effet, à en croire le langage ordinaire, on pèche par orgueil. Mais,
   comme nous allons le voir, s’il est facile de trouver des raisons de ne
   pas être orgueilleux, il est plus difficile de trouver en quoi
   l’orgueil constitue une faute plutôt qu’un simple défaut, et tombe sous
   le coup de la loi morale. La réponse à ce problème est pourtant toute
   simple : si l’orgueil est condamnable, c’est parce que l’orgueilleux
   est un gros connard (au sens technique du terme – car il y en a bel et
   bien un).

Orgueil et fierté

   Mais d’abord, qu’est-ce au juste que l’orgueil ? Avant de se lancer
   plus en avant dans cette enquête, il convient de distinguer l’orgueil
   de la fierté. En français, le premier terme peut parfois être utilisé à
   la place du second, par exemple lorsque l’on dit que quelqu’un « fait
   l’orgueil de sa famille » pour dire tout simplement que sa famille est
   très fière de lui. En anglais, il n’existe qu’un seul terme pour les
   deux : « pride » se traduit soit par fierté, soit par orgueil.
   Pourtant, les deux réalités doivent être distinguées : en tant que vice
   potentiel, l’orgueil est une disposition stable des individus, tandis
   que la fierté est une émotion, par nature passagère et transitoire. On
   ressent de la fierté, mais on a de l’orgueil.

               Leur proximité linguistique suggère tout de même un lien
   entre l’orgueil et la fierté. En conséquence, il se pourrait que la
   nature de la fierté nous permette de saisir celle de l’orgueil.
   Commençons donc par définir la fierté : il s’agit d’une émotion
   positive, suscitée par la croyance d’avoir accompli un haut fait, ou
   par l’opinion d’avoir quelque qualité. Nous sommes fiers quand nous
   considérons que nos actions révèlent quelques qualités ou aptitudes en
   nous, qualités ou aptitudes dont nous sommes également fiers.

               Peut-on alors définir l’orgueil comme un dérèglement de la
   fierté, de la même manière que l’irascibilité pourrait être définie
   comme un dérèglement de la colère, ou la luxure comme un dérèglement du
   désir sexuel ? Ce n’est pas clair, d’autant plus que la notion de
   dérèglement reste vague et peut être spécifiée de différentes façons :
   selon la fréquence, l’intensité, ou le caractère justifié de l’émotion
   en question. On pourrait ainsi imaginer que l’orgueilleux est un être
   qui se sent fier de lui trop souvent, ou en tout cas plus souvent que
   la moyenne. Mais il est difficile de voir ce qu’il y a de mal à cela :
   tant mieux pour lui après tout. De même pour celui dont le sentiment de
--
   fait de voir ses travaux citer par un autre peut prêter à rire, mais il
   serait absurde de juger sa réaction comme immorale.

               Faut-il alors définir l’orgueil comme la tendance à être
   fier de façon injustifiée, c’est-à-dire pour des choses dont on
   n’aurait pas à être fier ? Faut-il blâmer l’homme fier de sa beauté, du
   fait d’avoir été invité chez telle personnalité bien en vue, ou encore
--
   bonne est déplacée et ridicule, mais cela devrait nous conduire à le
   prendre en pitié, plutôt qu’à juger qui ce qu’il fait est mal ou
   injuste. De plus, il n’est pas clair que nous le jugerions
   orgueilleux : nous dirions plutôt qu’il est vain ou fat. Mais la vanité
   et la fatuité, c’est-à-dire le fait de se sentir fier pour des choses
   superficielles et sans importance, ne sont pas la même chose que
   l’orgueil. Les deux défauts sont certes cumulables mais ils peuvent
   aussi exister séparément : on peut s’enorgueillir de qualités qui sont
   d’authentiques qualités, tout comme on peut être vain sans être bouffi
   d’orgueil.

Orgueil, modestie et vantardise

   Il ne semble donc pas possible de définir l’orgueil comme un simple
   dérèglement de la fierté. Il n’empêche que les deux ont sans doute un
   rapport : les qualités dont nous sommes fiers constituent le terreau
   sur lequel croît l’orgueil, d’où la proximité linguistique des deux
   termes. Reste à savoir quelle attitude envers ces qualités constitue
   précisément l’orgueil.

               Une façon de procéder pourrait consister à déterminer la
   nature d’un vice en cherchant les vertus qui lui sont opposées. Or, on
   oppose traditionnellement l’orgueil à la modestie et à l’humilité. Il
   suffirait donc peut-être de définir ce que sont ces vertus pour que la
   nature de l’orgueil nous apparaisse en négatif. Mais là encore, il y a
   débat au sujet de la nature exacte de ces vertus.

               Prenons la modestie. Il y a plusieurs façons de la définir.
--
   c’est le refus de l’ostentatoire et du bling-bling. La modestie n’est
   pas seulement une forme de politesse, c’est aussi une forme de pudeur.

               Mais peut-on vraiment définir l’orgueil comme le contraire
   de la modestie, comprise en ce sens ? Pas vraiment. Imaginons le
   contraire de la modestie telle que présentée ci-dessus : cela
   consisterait à se vanter de ses succès (réels ou imaginaires) et à
   faire remarquer toutes les qualités dont nous sommes pourvus –
   autrement dit à se vanter. Le contraire de la modestie serait alors la
   vantardise (ou la fanfaronnade), et le contraire du modeste le crâneur.
   Mais ce n’est pas la même chose que l’orgueil : il semble possible
   d’imaginer un homme très orgueilleux mais qui ne fait pas pour autant
   étalage de ses qualités, et un fanfaron qui n’a aucun orgueil, mais au
   contraire cherche désespérément l’approbation des autres parce qu’il a
   le sentiment d’être un moins-que-rien.

Orgueil et confiance en soi

   On pourrait penser que s’il semble incorrect de définir l’orgueil comme
   le contraire de la modestie, c’est uniquement parce que la définition
   proposée plus haut de la modestie n’est pas la bonne : elle se
   concentre uniquement sur ce qu’une personne dit de ses qualités, et pas
--
   distinguées) comme une certaine forme de croyance au sujet de ses
   propres qualités et capacités. Ainsi, pour certains, la modestie
   consisterait avant tout à sous-estimer ses propres qualités.[2] Elle
   s’opposerait ainsi à l’orgueil, qui consisterait à les surestimer.

               Cette conception de l’orgueil soulève cependant deux
   difficultés majeures. Premièrement, on ne voit pas bien en quoi la
   modestie, entendue en ce sens, constituerait une vertu. En en effet, si
   la modestie consiste à sous-estimer constamment nos qualités, cela
   signifie qu’elle consiste à être de façon permanente dans l’erreur. Or,
   on ne voit pas très bien ce qu’il y a de bon à se tromper continument.
   Deuxièmement, si l’on définit l’orgueil par contraste avec ce type de
   modestie comme le fait de surestimer la plupart du temps ses qualités,
   alors on ne comprend pas en quoi il s’agit d’un vice moral. En effet,
   se tromper, vivre dans l’illusion est avant tout un vice épistémique,
--
   meilleur joueur de tennis du monde l’autorise à prendre les autres
   personnes de haut, à leur parler de façon désagréable et à leur
   déléguer les tâches dont il ne veut pas s’occuper. Clairement, nous
   aurions envie de dire que Roger est très orgueilleux. Il le serait
   d’ailleurs toujours s’il se conduisait de la même façon, mais en se
   sous-estimant légèrement, par exemple en pensant être le 3^e meilleur
   joueur de tennis du monde. Sous-estimer ou avoir une connaissance juste
   de ses propres qualités ne suffit donc pas à se prémunir contre le
   péché d’orgueil. L’orgueil ne saurait être réduit au fait d’être
   présomptueux ou prétentieux.

Orgueil et humilité

   Qu’est-ce donc alors que l’orgueil, si ce n’est ni le fait de se vanter
   de ses qualités, ni le fait de surestimer celles-ci ? L’exemple de
   Roger, développé ci-dessus, peut nous mettre sur la voie : ce qui nous
   conduit à penser que Roger est orgueilleux n’est pas simplement la
   haute opinion qu’il a de lui-même, ni la façon qu’il a de l’exprimer,
   mais ce que cette opinion le conduit à faire : prendre les autres de
   haut. Autrement dit, le problème avec Roger n’est pas qu’il pense être
--
   une faute proprement morale : en le conduisant à nier le principe selon
   lequel tous les hommes méritent une égale considération, l’état
   d’esprit du connard ouvre la porte à toutes les injustices, et à
   l’oppression. Si donc nous reprenons l’idée selon laquelle l’orgueil
   (i) est en lien avec le fait de se considérer comme doté de capacités
   supérieures à la moyenne et (ii) constitue une faute morale, une
   conclusion simple s’impose : l’orgueil, c’est tout simplement le fait
   d’être un connard. Autrement dit, l’orgueil, c’est le fait de se sentir
   justifié à traiter les autres moins bien que nous-mêmes simplement
   parce que nous pensons disposer de capacités supérieures dans un
   domaine donné.

               À l’orgueil s’oppose l’humilité, qui est le fait de
   résister à cette tentation, et de traiter les autres comme des égaux,
   quand bien même nous nous estimerions meilleurs qu’eux dans certains
   domaines. L’humilité ne requiert en aucune façon d’avoir une mauvaise
--
   collègues pour être désagréable avec ceux-ci, parler à voix haute
   pendant leurs conférences, et leur laisser des tâches administratives
   indignes de lui : cet homme ne sera pas vantard, ni présomptueux, mais
   il sera bel et bien orgueilleux.

               Ces deux exemples ne sont pas des œuvres de fiction, mais
   des personnages bel et bien réels. Si comme moi, vous estimez que le
   premier est de loin préférable au second, alors c’est que vous
   comprenez en quoi l’orgueil constitue un défaut moral majeur.
   _______________________

   [1] Wilson, A. (2014). Modesty as kindness. Ratio, 29(1), 73-88.
--
     * James
     * modestie
     * modesty
     * orgueil
     * péché
     * péchés
     * pride
--
    1.
   jean-louis says:
       19 novembre, 2017 at 1:51
       L’orgueil vient du savoir; Il y a plusieurs sortes de savoirs, mais
       il vient toujours d’un certain savoir.
       Il y a le savoir sur la nature des choses. Nature de l’univers, de
       la matière, de l’espèce humaine etc Ce savoir-là ne rend pas
       orgueilleux parce qu’il met en évidence qu’il est petit en
       comparaison de ce qu’il reste à savoir. Et parce que ce n’est pas
       un savoir égocentrique.
       Il y a le savoir sur la valeur des choses. Celui-là rend
       orgueilleux. C’est le jugement lui-même qui devient objet de
       valeur. On trouvera donc ce genre de savoir et ce genre
       d’orgueilleux chez les critiques de tous polis, les moralistes, les
       religieux, les politiques…
    2.
   Site streaming says:
       27 octobre, 2018 at 2:36
       L’orgueil et la fierté, d’une part c’est le contexte qui a
       influencé la différence que font les gents en ce qui les concerne
       d’autres parts, être orgueilleux c’est le mauvais côté d’être fier.
    3.
   site de streaming says:
       23 décembre, 2018 at 9:16
       Un excellent billet sur l’orgueil. Certaines personnes manquent
       énormément d’humilité, surtout dans l’air de numérique où tout le
       monde est mise en avant.
    4.
--
       6 mars, 2020 at 11:20
       Bonsoir Fernand, je serais curieuse de connaître la raison qui t’a
       conduit à choisir ce texte pour ta réflexion et la nôtre…
       Certes mot «orgueil» a-t-il mauvaise presse dans notre Occident à
       cause de ce péché d’orgueil considéré comme l’un des sept péchés
       capitaux et pourtant…
       Pour la psychanalyse l’orgueil est une hypertrophie du Moi. C’est
       un sentiment intériorisé, qui peut même isoler des autres, et peut
       accompagner la folie.
       Mais laisser moi vous narrer cette fable de La Fontaine :
--
       Si faibles, si chétifs, si humbles, si prudents,
       Dont la petite vie est le souci constant,
       Résistons pourtant mieux aux tempêtes du monde
       Que certains orgueilleux qui s’imaginent grands. »
       Le vent se lève sur ces mots, l’orage gronde.
       Et le souffle profond qui dévaste les bois,
       Tout comme la première fois,
--
       Eut un sourire triste et beau
       Et, avant de mourir, regardant le roseau,
       Lui dit : « Je suis encore un chêne ».
       Quoique qualifié d’orgueilleux, ce chêne ne vous est-il pas
       immensément sympathique? Le mot est trop familier; je dirais plutôt
       qu’il suscite l’admiration par cette fierté qu’il conserve malgré
       ses déboires et l’approche de la mort…
--
       philosophique au niveau artistique et ne mélangeant pas ma science
       de l’homme avec ma vie de tous les jours avec les autres. Lorsque
       je fais une exposition de mon travail je recueille toujours des
       commentaires me situant dans la prétention, l’orgueil, la
       vantardise. J’ai découvert récemment qu’une très bonne amie après
       30 ans d’amitié me considère comme vantard. Elle n’avait jamais
       mentionné cela. Qu’est-ce qui pousse les gens à juger l’humilité
--
   logo
   Now Reading

L’orgueil

   13min read
     * Société/Politique</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-17">
<text>   #Orgueil et enseignement Philosophie antique, Numéros Philosophie
   antique, Documents

   Navigation – Plan du site
--

   Problèmes, Renaissances, Usages

   AccueilNuméros20VariaOrgueil et enseignement

   Recherche___________ (BUTTON) Chercher
   Sommaire - Document précédent
--
   Nouvelles figures de Socrate
   Varia

Orgueil et enseignement

   À propos de quelques remarques du Commentaire au Premier Alcibiade de
   Proclus
--
   Celui-ci nous décrit le choix d’Alcibiade par Socrate, les premières
   étapes de leur relation pédagogique, mais aussi et surtout les
   principes théoriques qui les justifient, en faisant la part belle à ce
   qu’on pourrait appeler l’orgueil épistémique, pourvu de trois
   composantes : la fierté (φρόνημα), le mépris (καταφρονεῖν, etc.) et
   l’ambition (φιλοτιμία). Après une étude terminologique des notions
   pertinentes pour l’argument de Proclus à ce sujet, cet article tente de
   le reconstituer par une analyse des trois composantes décrites par
   Proclus et de leurs relations, en se concentrant sur l’aspect
   particulièrement développé dans les pages du Commentaire préservées :
   l’orgueil comme marque du potentiel de l’élève. Il décrit ensuite
   comment cette reconnaissance s’inscrit dans la dynamique plus générale
   de purification de l’orgueil d’Alcibiade par la méthode socratique, et
   revient enfin à la question philosophique initiale de la valeur
   éducative de l’humilité et de l’orgueil épistémiques.

   Humility is usually seen as a moral as well as epistemic virtue.
   Proclus’ Commentary on the First Alcibiades is a notable exception.
--

Mots-clés :

   orgueil, humilité, purification, éducation, vertu, Alcibiade

Keywords:

--
   1.3. Oἴησις
   1.4. Φιλοτιμία
   1.5. Ὕβρις et τῦφος
   2. L’élève potentiel du philosophe est l’orgueilleux
   2.1. Nécessité d’un critère
   2.2. Familiarité avec l’intelligible
   2.3. Mépris des choses basses
   2.4. L’ambition comme étape de l’ascension
   2.5. Orgueil et naturel philosophe
   3. Comment éduquer l’orgueilleux ?
   3.1. L’orgueil comme obstacle et tremplin
   3.2. Purification de l’orgueil et réminiscence
   Conclusion
   Haut de page

--
   morale, devient périlleuse quand on parle de vertu épistémique. Il faut
   dès lors être prêt à considérer la seconde. Si l’humilité ne peut être
   une vertu épistémique, qu’en est-il de ce en opposition à quoi elle se
   définit, et que nous nommerons provisoirement orgueil (épistémique) ?
   Peut-on trouver, à l’encontre d’un certain sens commun et peut-être
   d’une certaine tradition morale et pédagogique, une valeur positive à
   l’absence d’humilité (disons à l’orgueil) d’un apprenant ?
     * 5  À lire Augustin, on pourrait croire que tout le néoplatonisme
       est une voie d’orgueil (superbia ; v (...)
     * 6  Voir par exemple l’article de Roskam 2012.
     * 7  Une exception est Layne 2014, qui remarque cette dimension de la
       lecture proclienne, sans qu’elle (...)
--
   la question qui nous occupe. Curieusement, elle n’a fait l’objet que de
   fort peu d’attention parmi les commentateurs modernes, qui se
   contentent de prendre acte, en passant, du fait que selon le
   Commentaire, Socrate purifie Alcibiade de son orgueil en le redirigeant
   vers la vertu6, sans s’attarder sur la valorisation préliminaire de cet
   orgueil par Proclus7. C’est cette valorisation que nous tenterons de
   mieux comprendre ici (section 2) : quelle fécondité Proclus
   assigne-t-il à l’orgueil d’Alcibiade ? Nous pourrons ainsi jeter un
   nouveau jour sur la façon dont, selon lui, Socrate réoriente cet
   orgueil vers un nouvel objet, façon que nous rappellerons brièvement
   (section 3). Pour ce faire, nous commencerons cependant par une mise au
   point terminologique (section 1).

--
1.1. Φρόνημα et μεγαλαυχία

     * 10  Segonds traduit le terme tantôt par « pensée », tantôt par
       « orgueil », « fierté », par le fait d’ (...)
     * 11  In Alc. 27.3-8 : ὃ δὴ καὶ ὁ Σωκράτης ἐνδεικνύμενος διὰ τῆς
       πρώτης ταύτης κλήσεως ἐγείρει μὲν τὸ φρ (...)
     * 12  Par exemple dans le Critias, 120e.
--
     * 19  Au point que les traducteurs ont à l’occasion pu la confondre
       avec le φρόνημα (voir notes suivante (...)
     * 20  In Alc. 134, 7-11 ; Segonds y traduit μεγαλοφροσύνη par
       « orgueil », O’Neill par « arrogance ».
     * 21  In Alc. 84, 27-85, 3 ; Segonds y traduit ὁ μεγαλόφρων par « le
       magnanime », O’Neill par « the high (...)
     * 22  In Alc. 97, 13-98, 3 ; Segonds y traduit μεγαλοφροσύνη par
--
     * 55  In Alc. 312, 10-12.
     * 56  In Parm. 686, 19-21.

   9Qu’en est-il du terme grec traditionnel pour désigner l’orgueil, celui
   d’ὕβρις ? Proclus l’utilise peu, et seulement lorsqu’il commente un
   emploi de ce mot par Platon lui-même51. Il peut s’agir d’une façon de
   désigner la double ignorance52, mais c’est aussi une description
--
   μεγαλοφροσύνη55 : le τῦφος est l’état d’ignorance (double) qu’il s’agit
   de réfuter56.

2. L’élève potentiel du philosophe est l’orgueilleux

2.1. Nécessité d’un critère

--
   ambition comme condition préalable, au moins dans le cas du prodige
   qu’est Alcibiade, de son éducation philosophique.

2.5. Orgueil et naturel philosophe

   22Proclus a cherché à expliquer ce qui, dans l’attitude d’Alcibiade, a
   motivé Socrate à l’approcher après une longue période d’observation,
--
   de cette familiarité. Ce témoignage est celui qu’attendaient Socrate et
   son démon pour juger Alcibiade digne d’être aimé, c’est-à-dire
   enseigné. Or, quel terme peut désigner ce mélange de fierté, de mépris
   et d’ambition mieux que celui d’orgueil ? Si l’on comprend ce terme à
   la lumière des passages cités, il est permis de dire que pour Proclus,
   le naturel philosophe – c’est-à-dire l’élève capable de recevoir un
   enseignement philosophique et qui mérite donc d’être pris en charge –
   n’est autre que l’orgueilleux, celui qui est à la fois fier, méprisant
   et ambitieux.

3. Comment éduquer l’orgueilleux ?

     * 94  Layne 2014 .
     * 95  Sa position est certes unique, mais nuance celles de ses
--
   qui consiste à reconnaître l’aimé potentiel (comme nous l’avons vu dans
   la section 2), à en gagner les faveurs, et enfin à en faire bon
   usage96 ; voyons brièvement comment cette structure s’applique à un
   aimé-élève orgueilleux.

3.1. L’orgueil comme obstacle et tremplin

     * 97  In Alc. 23, 16-25 ; 133, 1-7.
     * 98  In Alc. 24, 2-20 ; 98, 7-16 ; 100, 19-23 ; voir aussi In Parm.
--
   mépris ou l’ambition ? L’ignorance est laide, elle est donc honteuse,
   et il est encore plus honteux de se contredire soi-même, or la honte
   est ce que craint au plus haut point l’ambitieux et donc
   l’orgueilleux101. Alcibiade est acculé dans une impasse, car il est la
   source de sa propre honte, par son souhait d’une grandeur qui se
   détruit elle-même faute de se connaître assez.
     * 102  In Alc. 151, 12-154, 16
--
   comme ambitieux en se couvrant de honte à cause d’elles102. Il présente
   ainsi sa philosophie comme une providence démonique capable de donner
   accès au plus grand pouvoir, rentrant par là dans le jeu des grands
   desseins de l’orgueil d’Alcibiade tout en montrant bien combien ils
   sont impossibles sans la philosophie103.
     * 104  In Alc. 42, 5-43, 5.
     * 105  In Alc. 164, 1-22.
--
     * 107  In Alc. 21, 7-9 : τὸ γὰρ τὴν αἰτίαν ποθῆσαι μαθεῖν ὧν πράττει
       Σωκράτης, ἐραστήν ἐστι γενέσθαι τῆς (...)

   26Ce moment de basculement, où les rêves de l’orgueilleux radicalisent
   leur mépris des attachements indignes de lui au point d’avoir un besoin
   incontournable de l’enseignement du philosophe, est celui du θαυμάζειν,
   étonnement admiratif qui est le principe de la philosophie104. Il est
--
     * 108  Proclus distingue en fait trois vertus du bon élève :
       l’εὐφυία, la προθυμία et l’ἐμπειρία, ou expé (...)

   27L’orgueilleux n’écoute que lui-même et ceux qui parlent son langage,
   pour le flatter ou l’assister dans ses buts, mais il est d’autant plus
   vulnérable à la honte (ou à son risque) et à la curiosité qu’il est
   orgueilleux, et telle est la voie par laquelle Socrate peut se faire
   entendre de lui, le gagner comme interlocuteur, aimé et élève, et ainsi
   préparer sa conversion. Alcibiade a une naturelle tendance à toujours
   rechercher mieux que ce qu’il a, or c’est comme cela que Proclus
--
   l’étonnement, le voici maintenant équipé de motivation ou ardeur
   (προθυμία)108.

3.2. Purification de l’orgueil et réminiscence

     * 109  In Alc. 37, 19-42, 7 ; 45, 7-46, 1 ; 60, 1-64, 6 ; 84, 26-85,
       7 ; 153, 6-154, 16.
--
   et par là mené à un tri entre ses opinions et attachements visant à en
   exclure les objets inférieurs pour en assurer la cohérence112. Il
   importe que ce tri et cette purification soient opérés activement par
   l’orgueilleux Alcibiade lui-même : c’est seulement ainsi qu’il en
   comprendra et acceptera les enjeux et implications, à savoir la
   nécessité de reconnaître son ignorance et de chercher à la combler pour
   rendre possibles ses hautes aspirations113. Dès lors, l’action de
--
   à lever l’écran qui l’empêche d’y voir clair et de se souvenir de ce
   qu’il sait déjà114 : c’est là la condition pour que l’âme soit
   maintenue dans son automotricité115. C’est bien toujours au nom de
   l’orgueil et de sa cohérence interne ainsi radicalisée que ce qu’on
   pourrait décrire comme des vanités sont éliminées : il s’agit d’en
   purifier l’orgueil, auquel elles sont extérieures.
     * 116  In Alc. 145, 1-150, 27. Voir aussi la description plus sévère
       qu’en donne Proclus en De Prov. 16-2 (...)
     * 117  De Prov. 24, 1-11 et 25, 29-34.
     * 118  In Alc. 218, 1-223, 19 ; 228, 10-14.

   30Ce n’est qu’avec l’exhortation à la vertu que la purification se fait
   interne à l’orgueil. L’ambition d’Alcibiade et les formes de mépris qui
   y sont directement liées, bien qu’utiles à la prise en charge par
   Socrate et à l’adoption de la philosophie contre les vanités, sont
   ultimement déraisonnables et donc indésirables : les honneurs d’ici
--
   mépris, dont elle doit conditionner les applications118. Ces derniers
   se voient donc, sinon exclus par la phase protreptique de
   l’enseignement socratique, au moins profondément redéfinis, donnant
   ainsi une coloration nouvelle à l’orgueil dont ils sont deux des trois
   composantes.
     * 119  In Alc. 187, 1-188, 20 ; 225, 11-14.
     * 120  In Alc. 188, 20-189, 14 ; 293, 19-23.
--
   complément ou un point de départ de la découverte plus qu’une
   alternative121. L’autre condition est la liberté vis-à-vis des attaches
   inférieures, que le mépris avait justement permis à Alcibiade
   d’éviter122. L’orgueilleux, en tant que méprisant, est meilleur
   chercheur ; en tant que fier123 et qu’ambitieux124, il est plus digne
   de recevoir un enseignement.
     * 125  In Alc. 90, 12-22, voir le commentaire de Layne 2014 mais
--
   réminiscence, du moins en ce qui concerne sa dimension discursive :
   celle d’Ulysse, parvenue au terme de la recherche, qui accède à un
   niveau supérieur de sagesse en même temps qu’elle abandonne pour de bon
   toute ambition126 ; ce que l’orgueil a d’essentiel est la fierté, et la
   redéfinition qu’elle exige de l’ambition mène ultimement à l’abandon de
   celle-ci pour retrouver l’intelligible dont l’âme est fière d’avoir le
   souvenir.
--
       (voir note 92 supra), les autres profi (...)

   33Le modèle que nous offre Proclus est-il satisfaisant ? Il se donne
   ses propres bornes : bien que l’orgueilleux soit le profil le plus
   prometteur, celui qui pourrait sans doute aller le plus loin dans la
   réception de l’enseignement philosophique, Proclus semble laisser une
   place à l’exploitation d’autres traits de caractère127 par l’enseignant
   avisé : l’orgueil est une vertu épistémique, mais elle n’est pas
   rigoureusement indispensable, et peut-être l’humble peut-il aussi
   apprendre. Cette réserve admise, l’orgueil (si l’on accepte ce nom pour
   le trait trouvé par Proclus chez l’Alcibiade du dialogue) se
   révèle-t-il plus prometteur que l’humilité, et échappe-t-il aux failles
   de celle-ci ?
--

   35Chacune des deux vertus s’autorise de la libération de certaines
   entraves épistémiques : l’humilité protégerait des interférences de ce
   que Proclus appellerait l’ambition, l’orgueil des distractions causées
   par tout ce qui ne mène pas à l’honneur ou à une connaissance
   susceptible de le mériter. L’humilité se caractériserait précisément
   par une ouverture indifférenciée à une diversité d’influences et de
   sources de connaissance possibles, là où l’orgueil est d’emblée une
   fermeture qui n’accorde d’exception que durement conquise sur un mépris
   généralisé. Cette conquête est une étape décisive dans le parcours
   épistémique de l’orgueilleux : une fois accomplie, l’orgueil passe du
   statut d’obstacle à celui de tremplin et de source positive de
   motivation active, ce qui permet des merveilles cognitives128. Au
   contraire, l’humilité est une disponibilité qui offre peu de résistance
--
     * 129  Comme on l’a vu (cf. note 119 supra), l’humilité pourrait être
       réhabilitée dans le cas d’un enseig (...)

   36L’orgueil de l’apprenant, tout comme son humilité dans une acception
   stricte telle que celle qu’on a vue en introduction, est une
   mésestimation de ses propres capacités : tant que la connaissance de
   soi n’est pas acquise (et, si l’on veut suivre la tradition
--
   sous-estime : à la limite, il n’a même pas besoin d’être réfuté pour
   accepter l’enseignement, puisqu’il refuse tout privilège, réel ou non,
   sur autrui ; mais pour la même raison, il n’a aucun motif de souhaiter
   cesser un jour d’être élève. Au contraire, l’orgueilleux se surestime,
   il prétend à des privilèges épistémiques dont certains au moins sont
   indus. C’est justement pour cela qu’il est réfutable, et qu’il ne
   supportera pas de rester réfuté : être élève n’est qu’un moyen afin
--
   libre et critique), il faut bien convenir ici que l’humble, très
   réceptif à recevoir un enseignement mais sans motif de chercher par
   lui-même, se retrouvera ultimement dans une impasse d’hétéronomie129,
   là où l’orgueilleux, qui ne consent qu’à contrecœur à jouer l’élève
   (mais fera tous les efforts nécessaires pour ne plus en avoir besoin),
   se prête bien mieux à la recherche autonome, pourvu que sa fierté n’ait
   pas été étouffée. En conséquence, dans la mesure où l’on souhaite non
   seulement enseigner, mais aussi enseigner à apprendre, c’est-à-dire à
   poursuivre une recherche autonome, l’orgueil se révèle un trait (vice
   ou vertu) épistémique plus fécond et prometteur.

   37Une certaine conception de l’autorité tolère l’orgueilleux maître et
   encourage l’élève humble : on peut s’accorder quelque morgue quand on
   sait, mais le débutant doit faire profil bas pour mieux s’imprégner de
   l’enseignement reçu, et rester vigilant dans sa quête de savoir. Si
   l’on suit l’argument de Proclus tel qu’ici reconstitué, cette
   conception mériterait d’être renversée : peut-être faudrait-il plutôt
   encourager qui doit apprendre à être orgueilleux, et tolérer chez le
   maître quelque humilité ?
   Haut de page

--
   sa propre valeur.

   5  À lire Augustin, on pourrait croire que tout le néoplatonisme est
   une voie d’orgueil (superbia ; voir les Confessions, 7, 20 et la Cité
   de Dieu, 10), mais, outre le fait qu’il mobilise surtout le concept
   plotinien d’audace (τόλμα ; voir Torchia 1987), cet « orgueil » ne fait
   l’objet d’aucune thématisation – à plus forte raison d’aucune
   valorisation – explicite de la part des néoplatoniciens non chrétiens,
   si ce n’est, comme nous allons tenter de le montrer, chez Proclus.
--
   7  Une exception est Layne 2014, qui remarque cette dimension de la
   lecture proclienne, sans qu’elle ne joue un rôle décisif dans le propos
   de son article. Par ailleurs, nous verrons que l’ambition est une
   composante de l’orgueil ; le rôle de celle-ci chez Proclus est aussi
   commenté par van den Berg 2017. Notons enfin que la biographie de
   Proclus écrite par Marinus (voir en particulier les §12 et 16)
   suggérerait que le Diadoque ait lui-même cultivé une certaine forme
   d’orgueil personnel, selon Wildberg 2017.

   8  Segonds 1985-1986.

   9  O’Neill 1971.

   10  Segonds traduit le terme tantôt par « pensée », tantôt par
   « orgueil », « fierté », par le fait d’être « gorgé de grands
   desseins », par « décision », ou « prétention » ; O’Neill par « mind »,
   « lofty frame of mind », « pride », « high-spirit »,
   « high-mindedness », « vauting », « arrogance », « high resolve »,
--
   le φρόνημα (voir notes suivantes).

   20  In Alc. 134, 7-11 ; Segonds y traduit μεγαλοφροσύνη par
   « orgueil », O’Neill par « arrogance ».

   21  In Alc. 84, 27-85, 3 ; Segonds y traduit ὁ μεγαλόφρων par « le
   magnanime », O’Neill par « the high-minded man ».
--
   82) censé représenter les désirs (et il en va sans doute de même pour
   Calliclès). Leur désaccord intérieur est bon signe – et d’ailleurs
   Socrate leur accordera du temps – mais il peut n’être pas causé par
   l’ambition, et donc ne pas indiquer l’orgueil.

   90  In Ti. III, 340, 30-343, 8. Pour une analyse de ces trois modes de
   passion ou d’erreur, voir Baltzly 2006.
--

Référence papier

   Corentin Tresnie, « Orgueil et enseignement », Philosophie antique,
   20 | 2020, 237-261.

Référence électronique

   Corentin Tresnie, « Orgueil et enseignement », Philosophie antique [En
   ligne], 20 | 2020, mis en ligne le 31 octobre 2021, consulté le 05
   janvier 2024. URL : http://journals.openedition.org/philosant/3936 ;
   DOI : https://doi.org/10.4000/philosant.3936</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-18">
<text>          + Cplussur
     * Rencontres orientation@home

   Accueil › Figaroscope › Citations › Orgueil

Citations Orgueil

   ____________________________________________________________
   Précisez votre recherche :
--
   présomption, prétention, fierté, insolence, hauteur, dédain

     *
   “Mon orgueil pervertit tout.”
       Martine Le Coz
       De Martine Le Coz / Céleste
     *
   30 citations sur l'orgueil
       30 citations sur l'orgueil
       Il est souvent mal placé : l'orgueil, à ne pas confondre avec la
       fierté, est parfois tenu responsable des crises de couple. On dit
       qu'il tue l'amour. Pour conserver toute son humilité et...
     *
   “L'orgueil amène l'écrasement.”
       Proverbe français
       De Proverbe français
     *
   “Quand la faim croît, l’orgueil décroît.”
       Proverbe italien
       De Proverbe italien
     *
   “Trop d’humilité est demi-orgueil.”
       Proverbe yiddish
       De Proverbe yiddish
     *
   “La louange affermit notre orgueil, cependant que notre orgueil nous
       certifie la sincérité de la louange.”
       Jean Rostand
       De Jean Rostand / De la vanité
     *
   “La vanité est l’écume de l’orgueil.”
       Alphonse Karr
       De Alphonse Karr
     *
   “L'orgueil est le consolateur des faibles.”
       Vauvenargues
       De Vauvenargues / Réflexions et Maximes
     *
   “L’homme est l’orgueil du cèdre emplissant le roseau.”
       Victor Hugo
       De Victor Hugo / Les Contemplations
     *
   “Quand orgueil chevauche devant, Honte et dommage suivent de près.”
       Proverbe français
       De Proverbe français
     *
   “Le diable essuie sa queue avec l’orgueil du pauvre.”
       Proverbe espagnol
       De Proverbe espagnol
     *
   “La charité est souvent un fruit de l’orgueil.”
       Alfonso Di Lernia
       De Alfonso Di Lernia
     *
   “On se sauve de tout par l'orgueil.”
       Gustave Flaubert
       De Gustave Flaubert / Louise Colet - 23 Mai 1852
     *
   “Plaire à soi est orgueil ; aux autres, vanité.”
       Paul Valéry
       De Paul Valéry / Mélange
     *
   “L'humilité est le contrepoison de l'orgueil.”
       Voltaire
       De Voltaire / Dictionnaire philosophique</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-19">
<text>   ____________________

   Historique
   Accueil / Tous les articles de dictionnaire / orgueil

   orgueil [infobulle_prononciationprononciationbloc
   prononciationprononciation400 VOIR le tableau de l’alphabet phonétique
   international.VOIR les principes de la transcription phonétique.VOIR
   l'article thématique : La prononciation du français québécois.VOIR
--
   analogiquesrenvoisLa flèche horizontale ( ⇒ ) renvoie à un ou à des
   synonymes, c'est-à-dire à un ou à des mots qui présentent le même sens
   ou à peu près le même sens. ⇒  fierté, présomption, prétention,
   suffisance, vanité. Orgueil démesuré. Péché d'orgueil. Être gonflé,
   rempli, plein d’orgueil. Avoir trop, peu d’orgueil.
   infobullenum_macro_sens_num_macro_sensnum_sensI, II, III…structuration
   de l'article250IMacrosensAMésosens1Sens◈Sous-sens‒Nuance2 Sentiment
   noble inspiré par une juste confiance, l'estime légitime de soi ou des
   autres. infobullerenvoi_syn__⇒ ⇒ renvoi synonymique250Renvois
   analogiquesrenvoisLa flèche horizontale ( ⇒ ) renvoie à un ou à des
   synonymes, c'est-à-dire à un ou à des mots qui présentent le même sens
   ou à peu près le même sens. ⇒  amour-propre, dignité, fierté. Orgueil
   maternel, national. Froisser, blesser qqn dans son orgueil. Flatter
   l’orgueil de qqn. « Par orgueil, elle décida d'aller jusqu'au bout de
   ce qu'elle avait amorcé »
   noticeArlette_Cousture.bio.xmlArlette_Cousture_bio_xmlArlette
   CoustureLes filles de CalebMontréal, Éditions Libre Expression, 1995,
   t. 1, Le chant du coq, 457 p. [1re éd., 1985] javascript:return
   naviguerVers('')(A. Cousture, 1985).
   infobullenum_macro_sens_num_macro_sensnum_sensI, II, III…structuration
   de l'article250IMacrosensAMésosens1Sens◈Sous-sens‒Nuance3 L'orgueil
   de : satisfaction d'amour-propre, sujet de fierté, légitime ou non.
   « ce centre de ski de fond [...] fait l'orgueil de ses membres »
   noticeJournalLa_Presse_bio_xmlLa_Presse.bio.xmlLa Presse Quotidien
   québécois publié à Montréal. (La Presse, 1991).
   infobulledef_sous_entree_in_TLFin_TLFin TLFiin Trésor de la langue
   française informatisé400orgueilCet article s'appuie sur certaines
   données du TLFi. Rechercher « ###_entree_### » dans le TLFiLe Centre
   d’analyse et de traitement informatique du français québécois (CATIFQ)*
   a établi une convention de collaboration scientifique avec le Centre
--
   « fierté ».
   ORTHOGRAPHE
     nom masculin
   orgueil
   singulier pluriel
   orgueil
   orgueils

     *
     *
--
   Afficher plus de mots apparentés

   Sous-entrées
     * l'orgueil de

   Afficher plus de sous-entrées

--
     * orgiaque
     * orgie
     * orgue
     * orgueil
     * orgueilleusement
     * orgueilleux, orgueilleuse
     * oriel
     * orient
     * orientable</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-2">
<text>     * Début
     * 1Définition
       (BUTTON) Afficher / masquer la sous-section Définition
          + 1.1Différence entre orgueil et vanité
     * 2Dans le christianisme
     * 3Étymologie
     * 4Dans la fiction
--

   [ ] Basculer la table des matières

Orgueil

   [ ] 52 langues
     * العربية
--
   Un article de Wikipédia, l'encyclopédie libre.
   Page d’aide sur l’homonymie

   Pour les articles homonymes, voir Orgueil (homonymie).

   Cet article est une ébauche concernant la religion.

--

   Consultez la liste des tâches à accomplir en page de discussion.
   [220px-Pieter_Bruegel_the_Elder-_The_Seven_Deadly_Sins_or_the_Seven_Vic
   es_-_Pride.JPG] L'Orgueil selon Pieter Brueghel l'Ancien

   L'orgueil (superbia en latin) est une opinion très avantageuse, le plus
   souvent exagérée, qu'on a de sa valeur personnelle (à ne pas confondre
   avec l'égocentrisme) mais aux dépens de la considération due à autrui,
   à la différence de la fierté^[n 1] qui n'a nul besoin de se mesurer à
--
   à ses propres mérites de qualités ou de comportements qui sont des dons
   de Dieu (intelligence, vertus, etc.).

   À l'inverse, l'orgueil peut également être perçu par d'autres
   référentiels culturels ou civilisationnels comme une vertu ou un idéal.
   À cet égard, on peut citer le code du bushido, qui sous tend
   l'organisation du Japon féodal particulièrement durant l'ère Edo, et
   qui exalte « L'orgueil qui doit être sorti de son fourreau, comme une
   bonne lame, pour qu'elle ne rouille pas » (Hagakure, Jōchō Yamamoto).
   Quant à La Rochefoucauld, dans ses Maximes et réflexions (285), il
   considère que la magnanimité est le "bons sens de l'orgueil". Enfin, en
   Europe, la période romantique voit une forme de fascination artistique
   et littéraire pour l'orgueil et la révolte qu'il peut entraîner, comme
   le note Albert Camus dans ses analyses (dans L'Homme révolté
   notamment).

Définition[modifier | modifier le code]

Différence entre orgueil et vanité[modifier | modifier le code]

   Selon Arthur Schopenhauer, « l’orgueil est la conviction déjà fermement
   acquise de notre propre haute valeur sous tous les rapports ; la
   vanité, au contraire, est le désir de faire naître cette conviction
   chez les autres et, d’ordinaire, avec le secret espoir de pouvoir par
   la suite nous l’approprier aussi. Ainsi l’orgueil est la haute estime
   de soi-même, procédant de l’intérieur, donc directe ; la vanité, au
   contraire, est la tendance à l’acquérir du dehors, donc indirectement.
   C’est pourquoi la vanité rend causeur ; l’orgueil, taciturne. Mais le
   vaniteux devrait savoir que la haute opinion d’autrui, à laquelle il
   aspire, s’obtient beaucoup plus vite et plus sûrement en gardant un
   silence continu qu’en parlant, quand on aurait les plus belles choses
   du monde à dire »^[2].

   Selon Dominic Moser, l’orgueil est une manière de se satisfaire de
   soi-même et se mettre dans une position morale plus élevée que celle
   que l'on a vraiment par rapport à celle que nous avons réellement. La
   vanité est davantage un besoin de recevoir de la reconnaissance afin
   d'être rassuré dans la nature intime de notre être ou égo au moyen de
   flatteries et compliments provenant d'autre personnes. « Après avoir un
   certain état d'éveil au cours de la vie, il est difficile de se
   débarrasser de son propre orgueil et ne pas se glorifier de l'illusion
   de l'orgueil et de la vanité que les gens ont à notre égard.»^[3]

Dans le christianisme[modifier | modifier le code]

   L'orgueil est considéré comme un péché dans le christianisme.

   Dans la première Béatitude, l'évangéliste Matthieu rapporte les paroles
   du Christ : « Heureux les pauvres en esprit : le Royaume des cieux est
   à eux » (Mt 5, 3). Dans son évangile, Matthieu rapporte souvent les
   paroles de Jésus qui reproche aux Pharisiens leur orgueil et leur
   suffisance qui les rend sourds à la révélation de Dieu contenue dans la
   Bonne Nouvelle^[4].

   Devant la croix du Christ, expression extrême de son don de soi, il n'y
   a personne qui puisse s'enorgueillir lui-même, de sa propre justice
   faite par lui pour lui ! Saint Paul, faisant écho à Jérémie, explicite
   cette pensée en écrivant : « Celui qui veut s'enorgueillir, qu'il mette
   son orgueil dans le Seigneur » (1 Co 1, 31 = Jr 9, 22sq) ; ou bien :
   « Mais pour moi, que la croix de notre Seigneur Jésus Christ reste mon
   seul orgueil. Par elle, le monde est à jamais crucifié pour moi, et moi
   pour le monde » (Ga 6, 14)^[5].

   Dans le catholicisme, l'orgueil est l'un des sept péchés capitaux^[6].

Étymologie[modifier | modifier le code]

Dans la fiction[modifier | modifier le code]

     * Dans le manga Fullmetal Alchemist de Hiromu Arakawa, l'un des sept
       Homonculus représente l'orgueil. Son nom est Pride, qui signifie
       « orgueil » ou « fierté » en anglais.
     * Dans le manga Judge de Yoshiki Tonogai, Hayato, le jeune homme au
       masque de lion, représente l'orgueil.
     * Dans le manga Umineko no naku koro ni de Ryūkishi07, Lucifer, l'une
       des sœurs du Purgatoire, représente le péché de l'orgueil.
     * Dans le manga Trinity Seven de Kenji Saitō, les magiciens puisent
       leurs pouvoirs dans l'étude des péchés capitaux.
     * Dans le manga Seven Deadly Sins de Nakaba Suzuki, Escanor est le
       péché de l'orgueil (péché capital).
     * Dans le light novel Re:Zero kara Hajimeru Isekai Seikatsu de Tappei
       Nagatsuki, Subaru, le personnage principal, est associé à l'orgueil
       dans le Culte de la Sorcière.
     * Dans Le Petit Prince de Saint-Exupéry, la rose est dite
       orgueilleuse.
     * Dans le light novel Blood Vampire Aesma's Pride, Aesma est le fils
       du roi d'Eterna. Enfant, Aesma représente l'orgueil et incarne un
       "démon" dans la secte des Ophites.

Notes et références[modifier | modifier le code]

Notes[modifier | modifier le code]

    1. ↑ L'orgueil est l'envers de la médaille de la fierté. L'un n'étant
       pas possible sans l'autre, on^[Qui ?] dit que l'orgueil émerge
       lorsque les circonstances n'emmènent pas l'individu fier où il
       veut.

--
Articles connexes[modifier | modifier le code]

   Sur les autres projets Wikimedia :
     * Orgueil, sur Wikimedia Commons
     * orgueil, sur le Wiktionnaire
     * Orgueil, sur Wikiquote

     * Sept péchés capitaux
     * Magnanimité
--
     * Nervosité
     * Nostalgie
     * Optimisme
     * Orgueil
     * Outrage
     * Panique
     * Passion
--
     * Envie
     * Gourmandise
     * Luxure
     * Orgueil

   [100px-Boschsevendeadlysins.jpg]
                                    Auteurs traitant du péché
--
     * icône décorative Portail de la psychologie

   Ce document provient de
   « https://fr.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Orgueil&amp;oldid=208053102 ».
   Catégories :
     * Péché capital
     * Vice</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-20">
<text>   MANUELS
   CORRECTEUR

ORGUEIL, nom

   règle-cordial
   ____________________
   search

Définition de orgueil

   nom masculin singulier
    1. Arrogance, fierté exagérée de sa propre personne.
    2. Sentiment de fierté justifié.
    3. Ce qui suscite la fierté.

Synonymes de orgueil

     * fierté, vanité, arrogance, suffisance, amour-propre, dédain,
       insolence, fatuité, infatuation, impertinence

Contraires de orgueil

     * modestie, humilité, simplicité

Exemples d'utilisation de orgueil

   bouffée d'orgueil
   "Une chaude bouffée d'orgueil gonfla le coeur de l'avocat, ses tempes
   battirent plus vite, il releva fièrement la tête en murmurant:" (Émile
   Gaboriau 1865 "L'affaire Lerouge")
   espèce d'orgueil
   "Il y avait là l'espèce d'orgueil et d'égoïsme qu'inspire une foi
   étroite aux gens qui consentent à porter le bandeau de l'intolérance,
   et qui croient à un seul chemin, rigidement tracé par la main du
   prêtre, pour aller au ciel." (George Sand 1861 "Consuelo")
   excès d'orgueil
   "Le sang qui coule dans mes veines est las, sans doute, des excès
   d'orgueil et d'action de tant de générations royales, et je traîne la
   fatigue de tous ces règnes..." (Jules Lemaître 1893 "Les Rois")
   mouvement d'orgueil
   "Delille chantait debout les règnes de la nature, et il lui était
   permis de dire dans un mouvement d'orgueil légitime:" (Henri-Dominique
   Lacordaire 1861 "Discours de réception à l'Académie française de
   Henri-Dominique Lacordaire")
   pointe d'orgueil
   "et elle énumérait ensuite, avec une pointe d'orgueil, les dames où
   elle avait servi comme femme de chambre." (Émile Zola 1880 "Nana")
   péché d'orgueil
   "Je ne sais, je n'ose chanter victoire, dans la crainte de tomber dans
   le péché d'orgueil et d'en être punie." (George Sand 1853 "Isidora")
   réaction d'orgueil
   "Sans réaction d'orgueil" (Le Monde 1994 "Extrait du Monde de mars
   1994")
   sentiment d'orgueil
   "Elle frémit à l'idée de dépouiller son enfant et de le sacrifier à un
   sentiment d'orgueil et de dédain." (George Sand 1851 "André")
   sourire d'orgueil
   "ajouta-t-il avec un sourire d'orgueil." (Michel Zévaco 1900-1901
   "Triboulet")
   sujet d'orgueil
   "exemple unique dans l'histoire du monde, et éternel sujet d'orgueil
   pour notre patrie." (François-René de Chateaubriand 1814 "De Buonaparte
   et des Bourbons")
   sursaut d'orgueil
   "Il en résultait chez lui un petit sursaut d'orgueil, des manières plus
   respectueuses, presque hautaines, et à côté d'une vanité dissimulée de
   parvenu traité en égal par des princes et des princesses, une fierté
   d'homme qui doit à son intelligence une situation analogue à celle
   donnée aux autres par leur naissance." (Guy de Maupassant 1889 "Fort
   comme la Mort")
   certain orgueil
   "Je lui montrai tout mon établissement, sans oublier l'office, avec un
   certain orgueil, et il ne fut pas avare de ses louanges." (Charles
   Dickens 1849-1850 "David Copperfield")
   faux orgueil
   "Elle se demande, penchée sur le précipice d'un point d'interrogation
   fatal, comment se fait-il que les mathématiques contiennent tant
   d'imposante grandeur et tant de vérité incontestable, tandis que, si
   elle les compare à l'homme, elle ne trouve en ce dernier que faux
   orgueil et mensonge." (Charles de Lautréamont 1846 "Les Chants de
   Maldoror")
   fol orgueil
   "Il y a moins loin encore de votre fol orgueil à une grossièreté
   injurieuse, et je ne veux pas vous donner le temps de franchir cet
   espace." (Louis de Viel-Castel 1840 "Augustin Moreto")
   grand orgueil
   "Camille connaissait la sécheresse de cette âme, les petitesses de ce
   grand orgueil auquel elle avait si justement appliqué le mot
   d'entêtement." (Honoré de Balzac 1839 "Béatrix")
   immense orgueil
   "Il n'avait pas l'âme médiocre et il savait payer royalement ses
   amitiés royales, le petit juif tenace, aux ambitions illimitées, dont
   les plus viles souplesses n'avaient jamais été que les servantes
   secrètes d'un immense orgueil." (Jules Lemaître 1893 "Les Rois")
   jeune orgueil
   "La solitude exaltée où s'était nourri si longtemps son jeune orgueil,
   parmi ces hommes grossiers qu'il redoutait et méprisait à la fois, ne
   serait pas rompue en un jour, mais il la sentait toute prête à céder, à
   s'ouvrir, ainsi qu'un mur battu par la mer." (Georges Bernanos 1935 "Un
   crime")
   juste orgueil
   "mais si vous avez le juste orgueil de la vertu, si vous êtes pénétrée
   de votre propre dignité..." (George Sand 1851 "André")
   légitime orgueil
   "Admettons que j'aie eu quelques vivacités en l'instruisant, que mon
   ironie d'homme ait blessé son légitime orgueil de jeune fille!..."
   (Honoré de Balzac 1844 "Honorine")
   naïf orgueil
   "Lorsqu'elle était venue chez lui, croyant lui servir de jouet, et que
   celui-ci l'avait traitée avec égard comme une femme et non comme une
   belle, la pauvre enfant se trouva tout à coup relevée par ce respect
   inattendu et par cet honneur inespéré, et elle sentit en même temps une
   reconnaissance profonde pour son bienfaiteur, un naïf orgueil de se
   voir si noblement appréciée." (Alexandre Dumas 1843 "Ascanio")
   noble orgueil
   "Elle n'avait pas besoin de vertu pour garder sa sainte pudeur, et le
   noble orgueil d'elle-même suffisait à la préserver des hommages
   grossiers que recherchaient ses compagnes." (George Sand 1851 "André")
   petit orgueil
   "Nous avions travaillé ensemble à une chose dont nous nous exagérions
   peut-être la conséquence parce qu'elle flattait notre petit orgueil,
   mais où nous avions porté une grande bonne volonté et bravé quelque
   danger." (George Sand 1872 "Nanon")
   propre orgueil
   "Leur propre bassesse les humilie dans autrui, leur propre orgueil les
   confond, leur propre néant les épouvante." (Victor Hugo 1833 "Han
   d'Islande")
   sot orgueil
   "il montrera d'ordinaire une grande présomption et un assez sot
   orgueil." (Alexis de Tocqueville 1835-1840 "De la démocratie en
   Amérique")
   vain orgueil
   "Non, ce n'est point un vain orgueil qui me pousse à mériter quelque
   réputation, c'est dans ton intérêt seul que j'agis, et parce que je me
   flatte de pouvoir un jour réparer dignement tes maux et tes peines dont
   je suis la cause à la vérité bien involontaire." (Victor Hugo 1820-1822
   "Lettres à la fiancée")
   vieil orgueil
   "Ils auraient mis les volets, sans leur vieil orgueil commercial qui
   les tenait encore debout devant le quartier." (Émile Zola 1883 "Au
   Bonheur des Dames")
   orgueil blessé
   "On m'a frappée, et voilà ce qui m'a fait tomber, m'écriai-je vivement,
   par un nouvel élan d'orgueil blessé." (Charlotte Brontë 1847 "Jane
   Eyre")
   orgueil démesuré
   "Cette parole, que l'on a blâmée comme l'expression d'un orgueil
   démesuré, n'est donc que l'expression exacte, précise et intelligente,
   d'un fait qui s'était constitué dès l'instant où toutes les forces
   nationales, éparpillées entre une multitude de souverainetés
   secondaires, s'étaient concentrées dans une seule main, qui en
   disposait désormais sans concurrence." (Eugène Sue 1838 "Histoire de la
   Marine française sous Louis XIV")
   orgueil humain
   "Surtout, il en coûtait trop à l'orgueil humain d'avouer qu'il s'était
   trompé." (François-René de Chateaubriand 1814 "De Buonaparte et des
   Bourbons")
   orgueil insensé
   "Libre de toute passion, aimant d'un amour égal tous ceux qui ont
   travaillé pour elle, elle ne partage pas l'orgueil insensé qui égare
   plusieurs de ses enfants." (Gustave Planche 1837 "Le fronton du
   Panthéon")
   orgueil national
   "Il n'était donc pas vrai de dire que l'orgueil national exigeât de
   nouvelles guerres." (Anne-Louise Germaine Necker de Staël-Holstein,
   dite Madame de Staël 1817 "Considérations sur les principaux événements
   de la Révolution française")
   appelle l'orgueil
   "Il s'agissait d'une femme abandonnée, qui, après avoir pleuré la
   perfidie de son amant, appelle l'orgueil à son aide." (Charlotte Brontë
   1847 "Jane Eyre")
   blesse l'orgueil
   "Il insulte au génie de ce peuple, massacre ses prêtres, blesse
   l'orgueil castillan, soulève contre lui les descendants du Cid et du
   grand capitaine." (François-René de Chateaubriand 1814 "De Buonaparte
   et des Bourbons")
   orgueil de la famille
   "l'amour, la fraternité d'armes, la haine, l'orgueil de la famille, le
   fanatisme, toutes les passions personnelles qui donnent de l'intensité
   aux caractères, de la physionomie aux actions." (George Sand 1833
   "Lélia")
   orgueil de la maison
   "beauté altière exprimant tout l'orgueil de la maison des Douglas dont
   elle était descendue." (Walter Scott 1819 "La Fiancée de Lammermoor")
   orgueil de la nation
   "que vos historiens ont flatté l'orgueil de la nation." (François de
   Salignac de La Mothe-Fénelon, dit Fénelon 1692-1696 "Dialogues des
   morts")
   orgueil de la race
   "Quand certaines femmes du haut rang ont sacrifié leur position à
   quelque violente passion, quand elles ont méconnu les lois, ne
   trouvent-elles pas dans l'orgueil de la race, dans la valeur qu'elles
   se donnent et dans leur supériorité même, des barrières presque aussi
   difficiles à passer que celles déjà franchies, et qui sont à la fois
   sociales et naturelles?" (Honoré de Balzac 1839 "Béatrix")
   orgueil de la victoire
   "Ses yeux noirs et vifs et toute sa physionomie annonçaient l'orgueil
   de la victoire et le plaisir de la vengeance satisfaite." (Walter Scott
   1817 "Rob-Roy")
   orgueil des rois
   "En demandant des explications nouvelles sur des intentions qui ne
   pouvaient être douteuses, elle a montré qu'elle renonçait avec douleur
   à l'espoir d'un retour vers la justice, et que si l'orgueil des rois
   est prodigue du sang de leurs sujets, l'humanité des représentants
   d'une nation libre est avare même du sang de ses ennemis." (Adolphe
   Thiers 1823-1827 "Histoire de la Révolution française")
   orgueil du triomphe
   "et d'une voix où perçait l'orgueil du triomphe:" (Henry Cauvain 1871
   "Maximilien Heller")

Mots proches de orgueil

   infatuation, vanité, arrogance, superbe (substantif), hauteur, morgue,
   fatuité, fanfaronnade, forfanterie, fanfaronnerie, rodomontade,
   gasconnade, piaffe, prétention, suffisance, présomption, outrecuidance,
   jactance, vantardise, gloriole, ostentation, poudre aux yeux, dédain,
   pose, parade, vanterie, grands airs, embarras, raideur, air méprisant,
   impertinence, insolence, orgueilleux, ivre d'orgueil, bouffi d'orgueil,
   altier, fier comme un paon, plein de soi-même, pétri d'orgueil, enivré
   d'orgueil, vaniteux, arrogant, hautain, fier, fanfaron, rodomont,
   fier-à-bras, tranche- montagne, matamore, gascon, bravache,
   prétentieux, pimbêche, empesé, affecté, pédant, renchéri, raide, rogue,
   suffisant, présomptueux, outrecuidant, fat, infatué, faiseur
   d'embarras, poseur, vantard, dédaigneux, méprisant, impertinent,
   insolent, parvenu, avantageux, premier moutardier du pape, fier comme
   Artaban, Narcisse, s'enorgueillir, être gonflé d'orgueil, mettre de
   l'ostentation, s'en croire, s'en faire accroire, se croire issu de la
   cuisse de Jupiter, pontifier, trôner, être infatué de sa personne,
   faire la roue, morguer, parader, se pavaner, se panader, faire
   l'important, lever le nez, le prendre de haut, se rengorger, se
   prévaloir, faire étalage, le roi n'est pas son cousin,
   orgueilleusement, vaniteusement, arrogamment, prétentieusement,
   présomptueusement, dédain, mésestime, manque de respect, manque de
   considération, irrévérence, nargue, dérision, raillerie, persiflage,
   quolibet, rabaissement, lèse-majesté, moquerie, brocard, cavillation,</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-21">
<text>   Appliquer
     * Accueil
     * La Sagesse des mythes
     * Tantale et autres mythes de l'orgueil

   Tantale et autres mythes de l'orgueil
   Découvrir un extrait

Tantale et autres mythes de l'orgueil

   Add this book to the wishlist

--
   honneur dont peu de mortels peuvent se vanter. Tantale se persuade
   tellement qu’il est exceptionnel qu’il se met à se prendre lui-même
   pour un dieu, contrevenant malgré les mises en garde de son fils au
   péché le plus fondamental chez les grecs : l’hybris, l’orgueil
   démesuré.

   Le mythe de Tantale, ici raconté avec d’autres mythes comme ceux</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-22">
<text>
   Recherche ____________________

   Accueil >gt; Dictionnaire >gt; Définitions du mot « orgueil »

Orgueil

   nom commun

   Sommaire
     * Définitions de « orgueil »
     * Étymologie de « orgueil »
     * Phonétique de « orgueil »
     * Fréquence d'apparition du mot « orgueil » dans le journal Le Monde
     * Évolution historique de l’usage du mot « orgueil »
     * Citations contenant le mot « orgueil »
     * Images d'illustration du mot « orgueil »
     * Traductions du mot « orgueil »
     * Synonymes de « orgueil »
     * Antonymes de « orgueil »
     * Combien de points fait le mot orgueil au Scrabble ?

   Variantes Singulier Pluriel
   Masculin  orgueil   orgueils

Définitions de « orgueil »

Trésor de la Langue Française informatisé

ORGUEIL, subst. masc.

   I.
   A. − Présomption, estime exagérée, amour excessif de soi-même, qui fait
   que l'on est persuadé de sa propre excellence, que l'on se juge
   supérieur aux autres. Les philosophes qui, pour l'orgueil et la
   sécheresse continuèrent les théologiens, décidèrent qu'il n'avait pas
   d'âme (Michelet,Peuple,1846, p.238).Disraëli (...) forme le projet
   (...) de devenir le plus grand homme qui ait jamais existé (...). On
   connaît l'orgueil fou d'un Byron, la mégalomanie d'un Hitler, d'un
   Goebbels, d'un Mussolini, greffée sur une jeunesse humiliée
   (Mounier,Traité caract.,1946, p.598):
   1. Un adage sacré dit que l'orgueil est le commencement de tous nos
   crimes; (...) et de toutes nos erreurs. C'est lui qui nous égare en
   nous inspirant un malheureux esprit de contention qui nous fait
   chercher des difficultés pour avoir le plaisir de contester, au lieu de
   les soumettre au principe prouvé... J. de Maistre,Soirées
   St-Pétersb.,t.1, 1821, p.304.
   − Subst. + d'orgueil.Homme d'orgueil. Homme qui est rempli d'orgueil.
   Le ciel de turquoise morte surveille la ruine des hommes d'orgueil qui
   voulurent en tenter l'escalade (Cocteau,Maalesh,1949, p.117).Politique
   d'orgueil. Politique qui est remplie d'orgueil. Ainsi, des deux côtés
   [France-Allemagne] la politique d'orgueil (...) de taquinerie et
   d'arrogance semble reprendre (Jaurès,Eur. incert.,1914, p.27).
   SYNT. Orgueil démesuré, immense, indomptable, ombrageux; insolent,
   stupide, vif orgueil; abattre, blesser, briser, flatter, humilier,
   mortifier, offenser, vaincre l'orgueil de qqn; avoir un orgueil de fer;
   être bouffi, ivre, perdu d'orgueil; se gonfler, se piquer d'orgueil;
   tomber du haut de son orgueil.
   − En partic. [Cette estime considérée chez une pers. qui se glorifie
   avec excès d'avantages qui lui viennent de ses origines, de son rang
   social, etc.] Suffisance, morgue, superbe. L'orgueil des princes. Ces
   nobles, se dit la soubrette, ont l'air d'être sortis de la propre
   cuisse de Jupiter; au moindre mot, leur orgueil se dresse sur les
   ergots, et ils ne peuvent, comme les vilains, digérer l'insulte
   (Gautier,Fracasse,1863, p.222).
   − Spécialement
   1. PSYCHANAL. ,,Hypertrophie du Moi et surestimation personnelle``
   (Pel. Psych. 1976). L'orgueil (...) est un des éléments de la
   constitution paranoïaque et il fait le lit de la méfiance, de
   l'interprétation et des idées de persécution (Lafon1963).
   2. MOR., RELIG. Défaut, esprit, vice d'orgueil; infernal, maudit, noir
   orgueil. Orgueil et humilité s'opposent donc comme le non et le oui,
   −celui-là qui est l'esprit de refus, la mortelle satisfaction d'une âme
   endurcie, blindée, cuirassée de contentement et entièrement insensible
   aux valeurs (Jankélévitch,Les Vertus et l'Amour,1970, p.661):
   2. Le problème métaphysique de l'orgueil, de l'hybris, que les Grecs
   ont aperçu (...) a été un des thèmes essentiels de la théologie
   chrétienne (...). L'orgueil consiste à ne trouver sa force qu'en soi,
   il retranche celui qui l'éprouve d'une certaine communion des êtres, du
   même coup il tend à la briser, il joue comme un principe de
   destruction. G. Marcel,Position et approches concrètes du mystère
   ontologique,1967, p.74.
   ♦ [P. réf. à la Bible, Prov. 16-18] Orgueil de Lucifer, de Satan. Isaïe
   compare le roi de Babylone à Lucifer, qui est tombé du ciel sur terre à
   cause de son orgueil (Théol. cath.t.4, 11920, p.361).
   ♦ Péché d'orgueil. Le premier des sept péchés capitaux. Les péchés
   capitaux, a-t-il dit: il n'en a qu'un, lui, mais le père de tous les
   autres, l'orgueil! Par orgueil, il criera pour vous; par orgueil il
   vous trahira (Dumas père, Darlington,1832, i, 5, p.63).Ma fille, mon
   enfant, gardons-nous du péché d'orgueil. Nous sommes faits comme les
   autres. Nous sommes des chrétiens comme les autres. Nous eussions été
   comme eux (Péguy,Myst. charité,1910, p.129).
   B. − Fierté, sentiment noble inspiré par une juste confiance, l'estime
   légitime de soi ou des autres. Orgueil maternel, national; noble,
   respectable orgueil; donner de l'orgueil à qqn. L'ame accroît sa force
   par l'orgueil même de sa force; dès qu'elle s'estime, elle peut tout
   (Senancour,Rêveries,1799, p.81).Je condamne ta vanité, mais non pas ton
   orgueil, car si tu danses mieux qu'une autre, pourquoi te
   dénigrerais-tu en t'humiliant devant qui danse mal? Il est une forme
   d'orgueil qui est amour de la danse bien dansée
   (Saint-Exup.,Citad.,1943, p.864):
   3. Christophe oubliait donc tous ses griefs contre son père, et il
   s'évertuait à trouver des raisons de l'admirer (...) il rayonnait
   d'orgueil, quand il entendait admirer son talent de virtuose, ou quand
   Melchior racontait, en les amplifiant, les éloges qu'il avait reçus.
   Rolland,J.-Chr.,Aube, 1904, p.43.
   ♦ Avec orgueil. Avec fierté. Contempler, regarder qqn/qqc. avec
   orgueil. Souvent il se disoit avec orgueil: «C'est mon gendre!...»
   (Balzac,Annette,t.2, 1824, p.140).Le commandant Desbarres (...)
   montrait avec orgueil (...) la croix d'honneur donnée par l'empereur
   lui-même (...) pendant la retraite de Russie (Maupass.,Contes et
   nouv.,t.2, Rosier M^meHusson, 1887, p.690).
   ♦ (Avoir son) petit orgueil (fam.). (Éprouver une) satisfaction
   d'amour-propre. Corbie ouvrit les armoires, en tira des verres et une
   bouteille d'eau-de-vie, faisant le service avec le petit orgueil d'un
   homme qui montre qu'il est de la maison (Duranty,Malh. H. Gérard,1860,
   p.129).
   ♦ Mettre un certain, tout son orgueil à faire qqc. Mettre (...) son
   amour-propre à... Gavarni nous parle (...) de ce temps où éditeurs,
   graveurs, artistes mettaient un certain orgueil à faire quelque chose
   de propre (Goncourt,Journal,1857, p.364).Il y avait surtout le fils
   d'un entrepreneur forain (...) qui mettait son orgueil à rester dernier
   de la classe (Gide,Si le grain,1924, p.424).
   ♦ Subst. + d'orgueil.Sentiment d'orgueil. Il venait d'obtenir pour lui
   le ruban de la légion d'honneur. Félicité pleura. Son mari décoré! Son
   rêve d'orgueil n'était jamais allé jusque là (Zola,Fortune Rougon,1871,
   p.295):
   4. Les petits plaisirs d'orgueil qu'il récoltait quotidiennement,
   l'empressement qu'il rencontrait aux cérémonies mineures où il
   représentait son ministre, la considération des officiers généraux, la
   poignée de main des sénateurs ventrus, faisaient à Simon cette
   apparence satisfaite. Druon,Gdes fam.,t.1, 1948, p.181.
   − P. anal. [Le compl. de nom désigne un arbre, un édifice] Aspect
   imposant, majesté de quelque chose. L'orgueil des palais. L'Escurial
   étend son orgueil de granit (Verlaine,Poèmes saturn.,1866, p.89).La
   maison était entourée de vieux sycomores laissés libres de tout temps.
   Ils étaient d'une santé et d'un orgueil magnifiques. Les troncs
   bosselés de muscles roux s'élançaient vers le ciel avec tant de
   puissance qu'ils soulevaient la terre dans leurs racines (Giono,Que ma
   joie demeure,1935, p.252).
   II. − (Être l')orgueil de qqn/de qqc.(Être pour quelqu'un/quelque chose
   une) satisfaction d'amour-propre, (un) sujet de fierté, légitime ou
   non. Être l'orgueil d'une personne, d'un pays, d'un groupe; son fils,
   l'orgueil de la famille. N'avez-vous pas (...) un fils que tout le
   monde nous envierait, un fils qui est notre orgueil, notre gloire,
   notre avenir? (Scribe,Bertrand,1833, ii, 2, p.150).Général Koenig!
   Sachez et dites à vos troupes que toute la France vous regarde et que
   vous êtes son orgueil (De Gaulle,Mém. guerre,1954, p.671).
   III. − TECHNOL. ,,Grosse cale de pierre ou de bois servant de point
   d'appui à un levier`` (Barb.-Cad. 1963).
   REM.
   Orgueillite, subst. fém.,rare. Accès, crise d'orgueil. Souffrir, être
   atteint d'une orgueillite aiguë. Encore une crise d'orgueillite, chez
   les Charles Gide, tantôt. Une bouffée de vantardise (à propos de mes
   représentations en Allemagne) (Gide,Journal,1907, p.239).
   Prononc. et Orth.: [ɔ ʀgoej]. Att. ds Ac. dep. 1694. Étymol. et Hist.
--

Nom commun - français

   orgueil \ɔʁ.ɡœj\ masculin
    1. Vanité qui porte à se mettre au-dessus des autres. Opinion très
       avantageuse, le plus souvent exagérée, qu’une personne a de sa
       valeur personnelle aux dépens de la considération due à autrui.
          + Tels sont surtout les comédiens, les musiciens, les orateurs
            et les poètes. Moins ils ont de talent, plus ils ont
            d’orgueil, de vanité, d’arrogance. Tous ces fous trouvent
            cependant d’autres fous qui les applaudissent; […]. — (Érasme;
            Éloge de la folie, 1509. Traduction de Thibault de Laveaux en
            1780)
          + Le désir de vivre cède à l’orgueil, la plus impérieuse de
            toutes les passions qui maîtrisent le cœur de l’homme.
            — (Robespierre, Discours sur la peine de mort, le 30 mai 1791
            au sein de l’Assemblée constituante)
          + O détestable orgueil ! Non il n’est point de vice
            Plus funeste aux mortels, plus digne de supplice.
            Voulant tout asservir à ses injustes droits,
            De l’humanité même il étouffe la voix. — (Philippe Néricault
            Destouches, Le Glorieux, Lycante, Acte IV, sc.3)
          + Être du Tout-Paris inspire immédiatement à celui qui a cet
            honneur un orgueil sans bornes. Il méprise autour de lui —
            même dans ses amis et connaissances — quiconque n’en est pas ;
            […]. — (Anatole Claveau, Le Tout-Paris, dans Sermons laïques,
            Paris : Paul Ollendorff, 1898, 3^e éd., p.22 &amp; 23)
          + Il y a une différence entre l’orgueil et la vanité. L’orgueil
            est le désir d’être au-dessus des autres, c’est l’amour
            solitaire de soi-même. La vanité au contraire, c’est le désir
            d’être approuvé par les autres. Au fond de la vanité, il y a
            de l’humilité; une incertitude sur soi que les éloges
            guérissent. — (Henri Bergson,  ^Référence nécessaire,)
          + J’imagine que le pessimisme grec provient de tribus pauvres,
            guerrières et montagnardes, qui avaient un énorme orgueil
            aristocratique, mais dont la situation était par contre fort
            médiocre; […]. — (Georges Sorel, Réflexions sur la violence,
            1908, p.15)
          + Monsieur Hector y découvre moins d’originalité réelle qu’un
            orgueil bien assis, une volonté de contemption toute proche de
            l’irrespect. — (Jean Rogissart, Passantes d’Octobre, Librairie
            Arthème Fayard, Paris, 1958)
          + L’orgueil, l’épicentre de la bêtise. — (Marie-Ève Sévigny,
            Intimité et autres objets fragiles, Triptyque, 2012, page 18)
          + (Animisme/Métonymie) L'orgueil blessé est prêt à de grands
            sacrifices pour se venger. — (Mathieu Ricard, Plaidoyer pour
            l'altruisme, NiL, Paris, 2013, p. 391)
    2. (Péjoratif) Légitime fierté qui éloigne de la bassesse.
          + […] ses yeux étaient si brillants de ce premier orgueil
            qu’éprouve l’homme à son premier triomphe, il était si beau et
            si fier de son bonheur, […]. — (Alexandre Dumas, Othon
            l’archer, 1839)
--
       mise sous un levier pour servir de point d'appui.
          + Le point où agit cette puissance, se nomme quelquefois par les
            Latins, hypomochlium , ordinairement point d'appui ; c'est ce
            que les ouvriers appellent orgueil ou cale, qui se met sous
            les pinces ou leviers, [...]. — (Ouvrage collectif,
            Descriptions des arts et métiers: Arts des mines, Paris 1761)

--

Dictionnaire de l’Académie française, huitième édition (1932-1935)

   ORGUEIL. (GUEIL se prononce comme DEUIL.) n. m.
   Excès d'estime de soi-même qui porte à se mettre au-dessus des autres.
   Orgueil insupportable. Orgueil insensé. Être plein, enflé, bouffi
   d'orgueil. Être fou d'orgueil. Rabattre l'orgueil de quelqu'un. Avoir
   des mouvements d'orgueil. L'orgueil perçait à travers son apparente
   modestie. Elliptiquement, L'orgueil de sa naissance, de ses richesses,
   de ses belles actions, L'orgueil que lui inspire sa naissance, etc. Il
   se prend aussi quelquefois en bonne part et alors il désigne un
   Sentiment noble et élevé, une légitime fierté qui éloigne de toute
   sorte de bassesse. J'ai l'orgueil de croire que je ne suis pas indigne
   de votre estime. Être l'orgueil de, faire l'orgueil de, Être le sujet
   d'une fierté légitime. Par ses beaux succès, ce jeune homme fait
   l'orgueil de sa famille.

Littré (1872-1877)

   ORGUEIL (or-gheull', ll mouillées) s. m.
     * 1Sentiment, état de l'âme où naît une opinion trop avantageuse de
       soi-même. "L'orgueil n'est pas toujours la marque des grands
       cœurs", Corneille, Suréna, V, 1. "L'orgueil se dédommage toujours
       et ne perd rien, lors même qu'il renonce à la vanité", La
       Rochefoucauld, Max. 33. "L'orgueil ne veut pas devoir, et
       l'amour-propre ne veut pas payer", La Rochefoucauld, ib. 228. "La
       nature, qui a sagement pourvu à la vie de l'homme par la
       disposition admirable des organes du corps, lui a sans doute donné
       l'orgueil pour lui épargner la douleur de connaître ses
       imperfections et ses misères", La Rochefoucauld, ib. Prem. pens. n°
       12. "L'orgueil qui naît des qualités spirituelles est de même genre
       que celui qui est fondé sur des avantages extérieurs", Nicole, Ess.
       de mor. 1er traité, ch. 1. "Tout ce qui est au monde ou
       concupiscence de la chair, ou concupiscence des yeux, ou orgueil de
       la vie", Pascal, Pens. XXIV, 32, éd. HAVET. "Jésus-Christ est un
       Dieu dont on s'approche sans orgueil, et sous lequel on s'abaisse
       sans désespoir", Pascal, ib. XVII, 7. "La misère persuade le
       désespoir, l'orgueil persuade la présomption ; l'incarnation montre
       à l'homme la grandeur de sa misère par la grandeur du remède qu'il
       a fallu", Pascal, ib. XII, 14. "Ils n'ont pu fuir ou l'orgueil ou
       la paresse, qui sont les deux sources de tous les vices", Pascal,
       ib. XII, 11. "Ô hommes… vos maladies principales sont l'orgueil qui
       vous soustrait de Dieu, la concupiscence qui vous attache à la
       terre", Pascal, ib. XII, 2. "Orgueil contre-pesant toutes nos
       misères : ou il cache ses misères, ou, s'il les découvre, il se
       glorifie de les connaître", Pascal, ib. II, 2. "M. d'Aix doit être
       bien content que M. d'Arles lui quitte la place ; appelle-t-on cela
       de l'orgueil ? c'en est un au moins qui contente fort celui de M.
       l'archevêque d'Aix : ces deux orgueils, dont l'un demeure et
       l'autre s'en va, s'accommoderont fort bien ensemble", Sévigné, 4
       déc. 1689. "Les enfers où il [Alexandre] porte la peine éternelle
       d'avoir voulu se faire adorer comme un Dieu soit par orgueil, soit
       par politique", Bossuet, la Vallière. "Elle croyait voir partout
       dans ses actions un amour-propre déguisé en vertu… ainsi Dieu
       l'humiliait par ce qui a coutume de nourrir l'orgueil", Bossuet,
       Anne de Gonz. "L'œil qui monte toujours", Bossuet, Marie-Thér.
       "Vous allez voir une reine qui, à l'exemple de David, attaque de
       tous côtés sa propre grandeur et tout l'orgueil qu'elle inspire",
       Bossuet, ib. "Saint Augustin définit l'orgueil une perverse
       imitation de la nature divine", Bossuet, 1er sermon, Nativité,
       fragment d'un autre sermon. "L'âme regarde ces honneurs que le
       monde vante ; et aussitôt elle en voit le fond, elle voit l'orgueil
       qu'ils inspirent, et découvre dans cet orgueil et les disputes et
       les jalousies et tous les maux qu'il entraîne", Bossuet, la
       Vallière. "L'orgueil est l'endroit le plus vif du cœur ; pour peu
       qu'on y touche, la douleur nous fait jeter de hauts cris",
       Bourdaloue, Pensées, t. II, p. 106. "Cet homme qui défendait les
       villes de Juda, qui domptait l'orgueil des enfants d'Ammon et
       d'Esaü", Fléchier, Turenne. "Mais, pour un vain bonheur qui vous a
       fait rimer, Gardez qu'un sot orgueil ne vous vienne enfumer",
       Boileau, Art p. II. "Je l'ai trouvé [Mardochée] couvert d'une
       affreuse poussière, Revêtu de lambeaux, tout pâle ; mais son œil
       Conservait sous la cendre encor le même orgueil", Racine, Esth. II,
       1. "Dois-je au superbe Achille accorder la victoire ? Son téméraire
       orgueil, que je vais redoubler, Croira que je lui cède", Racine,
       Iph. IV, 8. "C'en est fait : mon orgueil est forcé de plier",
       Racine, Esth. III, 5. "Que son farouche orgueil le rendait
       odieux !" Racine, Phèdre, III, 1. "Il faut définir l'orgueil une
       passion qui fait que, de tout ce qui est au monde, l'on n'estime
       que soi", La Bruyère, Théophraste, XXIV. "L'orgueil, qui vous tient
       lieu de raison, fait peut-être que les mœurs au dehors paraissent
       égales et uniformes", Massillon, Carême, Inconst. "C'est le
       chef-d'œuvre de la plus sincère modestie que d'avouer de l'orgueil
       et les imprudences de cet orgueil", Fontenelle, Saurin. "Notre
       orgueil nous met si vite au fait de celui des autres", Marivaux,
       Marianne, XIe part. "Nous nous connaissons tous si bien en orgueil,
       que personne ne saurait nous faire un secret du sien", Marivaux,
       Pays. parv. part. 4. "L'orgueil, joint à une vaste ambition, à la
       grandeur des idées, produisit chez les Romains les effets que l'on
       sait", Montesquieu, Esp. XIX, 9. "L'orgueil des petits consiste à
       parler toujours de soi ; l'orgueil des grands est de n'en jamais
       parler", Voltaire, Dict. phil. Quisquis, Langleviel. "Il se peut
       que Cicéron, qui d'ailleurs avait souvent vu le peuple romain, le
       peuple roi, lui applaudir et lui obéir, et qui était remercié par
       des rois qu'il ne connaissait pas, ait eu quelques mouvements
       d'orgueil et de vanité", Voltaire, Dict. phil. Orgueil. "Piron seul
       eut raison, quand dans un goût nouveau Il fit ce vers heureux digne
       de son tombeau : Ci-gît qui ne fut rien ; quoi que l'orgueil en
       dise, Humains, faibles humains, voilà votre devise", Voltaire, la
       Vanité. "L'orgueil est le premier des tyrans ou des consolateurs",
       Duclos, Consid. mœurs, 10. "L'orgueil humilié et rampant est
       toujours de l'orgueil", Duclos, ib. 13. "On a bien raison de dire :
       quand l'orgueil arrive, la pauvreté n'est pas loin", Picard, Manie
       de briller, III, 18.
       Orgueil de…, orgueil inspiré par. "Madame, ignorez-vous que
       l'orgueil de l'empire…", Racine, Bajaz. II, 1. "Nous ne connaissons
       point l'orgueil de la naissance", Voltaire, Fanat. I, 2.
     * 2En bonne part, sentiment noble, élevé, qui inspire une juste
       confiance en son propre mérite. "J'ai l'orgueil de croire que je ne
       suis pas indigne de votre amitié", Dict. de l'Acad. "Leur orgueil
       foule aux pieds l'orgueil du diadème", Voltaire, Brutus, I, 4.
       "Plutôt que jusque-là j'abaisse mon orgueil, Je verrais sans pâlir
       les fers et le cercueil", Voltaire, Zaïre, I, 1. "J'ai pensé qu'un
       guerrier, jaloux de sa puissance, Peut mettre l'orgueil même à
       pardonner l'offense", Voltaire, Alz. IV, 2. "Soyez béni, mon Dieu,
       vous qui daignez me rendre L'innocence et son noble orgueil",
       Gilbert, Derniers vers.
       Faire l'orgueil de, être l'orgueil de, être un sujet d'orgueil
       pour. "Elle fait tout l'orgueil d'une superbe mère", Racine, Iphig.
       II, 1. "La fille d'Alpéric, l'orgueil de l'Helvétie", Masson, Helv.
       III. "Un chêne antique, orgueil des paisibles hameaux", Baour-Lorm.
       dans GIRAULT-DUVIVIER.
     * 3Il se dit aussi des choses qui ont le caractère de l'orgueil.
       "J'aurais peine à souffrir l'orgueil de ses reproches", Corneille,
       Médée, II, 5. "Il abaisse à nos pieds l'orgueil des diadèmes",
       Corneille, Cinna, III, 4. "Et c'est là que, fuyant l'orgueil du
       diadème, Lasse de vains honneurs…", Racine, Esth. I, 1. "L'orgueil
       de vos attraits pense tout asservir", Voltaire, Marianne, II, 2.
       "Moi, que je flatte encor l'orgueil de sa beauté", Voltaire, Alz.
       IV, 1.
     * 4Faste, pourpre. "Le luxe qui l'entoure, dont les pauvres et ses
       créanciers ont souffert ; l'orgueil de ses édifices, que le bien de
       la veuve et de l'orphelin, que la misère publique a peut-être
       élevés", Massillon, Avent, Mort du péch.
     * 5 Terme de construction. Cale de bois, de pierre, ou de toute autre
--
       trouver aussi que l'Académie, en prodiguant les proverbes, a trop
       épargné certains termes usités des artisans, et qui font des images
       ou peuvent en fournir… Furetière avait raison de regretter le nom
       énergique d'orgueil, employé par les ouvriers pour désigner l'appui
       qui fait dresser la tête du levier, et que les savants appelaient
       du beau mot d'hypomochlion", Villemain, Préface du Dict. de
       l'Académie, 1835.
--

   Scribe a employé le pluriel dans sa comédie du Puff, II, 3 : " J'aurais
   mieux aimé ne voir chez moi que de bonnes gens, et mon salon est le
   rendez-vous de tous les orgueils, de tous les ressentiments
   littéraires. " C. Delavigne avait déjà employé ce pluriel dans le
   Paria : " Que d'orgueils révoltés ! " et Duviquet, dans l'examen
   critique de cette pièce, disait : " C'est la première fois que j'ai vu
   le mot orgueil employé au pluriel ; et je doute qu'il fût possible à M.
   Delavigne d'autoriser ce pluriel par quelques exemples. " Duviquet se
   trompait ; on voit dans une phrase de Mme de Sévigné, qu'il est
   question de deux orgueils. Le pluriel est aussi dans J. Marot.

SYNONYME

   ORGUEIL, VANITÉ. L'orgueil fait que nous nous estimons nous-mêmes au
   delà de ce qui est. La vanité fait que nous voulons être estimés
   d'autrui.

--
   XI^e s. "Consels d'orguill n'est dreiz que à plus mont [monte]", Ch. de
   Rol. X. "Veez l'orgoil de France la loée", ib. CCXL.

   XII^e s. "…comment soit Ses grans orgueus [son grant orgueil] abaissez
   et maumis", Ronc. p. 30. "Quant cil est morz qui m'a tolu l'orguel…",
   ib. p. 102. "Pleine d'orgueil et dame sans guerdon", Couci, II. "…Tout
   ce ne lo-je mie [je ne conseille] ; Que trop sembleroit estre orgoil et
   desverie", Sax. XXII.

--
   mescief", Ch. de Rains, p. 206. "La premiere avoit non Orguex, L'autre
   qui ne valoit pas miex Fu apelée Vilenie", la Rose, 965.

   XV^e s. "Grand orgueil est tantost mué", Chartier, Poésies, p. 720.

   XVI^e s. "Vaincu avez le More et son armée ; Genes soubmis, ses
   orgueilz abbatuz", Marot, J. v, 65. "Ceux qui condamnent les autres par
   orgueil, il avient après que Dieu les condamne par justice", Lanoue,
   72. "À orgueil ne manque de couvre deuil", Leroux de Lincy, Prov. t.
   II, p. 228. "Il n'est orgueil que de pauvre enrichi", Cotgrave †
   "Orgueil n'a pas bon œil", Cotgrave † "Ainsi l'orgueil de Rome est à ce
   point levé, Que d'un prestre, tout roi, tout empereur bravé, Est
   marchepied fangeux ; on void, sans qu'on s'estonne, La pantoufle
   crotter les fleurs de la couronne", D'Aubigné, Tragiques, Misères.
   Version électronique créée par François Gannaz - http://www.littre.org
   - licence Creative Commons Attribution

Étymologie de « orgueil »

          (980, Passion), orgolz, puis (1080, Chanson de Roland) orgoill
          et (1130, Eneas) orgueil. Du vieux-francique *urgôli « fierté »
          (cf. ancien haut allemand urguol « remarquable, excellent »),
          romanisé en *urgolius, qui a remplacé le latin classique
          superbia « orgueil, fierté » (espagnol orgullo, italien
          orgoglio, portugais orgulho, occitan orguèlh).

   Wiktionnaire - licence Creative Commons attribution partage à
--
   Wallon, orgou, ôrgou ; anc. liégeois, orgowe ; provenç. orguelh,
   erguelh, orguoil, orgoil, argull ; catal. orgull ; espagn. orgullo ;
   portug. orgulho ; ital. orgoglio ; anc. ital. argoglio ; de l'anc. haut
   allem. urguol, remarquable, insigne, urgilo, orgueilleux ; anglo-sax.
   orgel, orgueilleux. L'anc. haut all. se décompose en ur, us, répondant
   au lat. ex, et guol, gil, gal, pétulant, luxuriant.

   Version électronique créée par François Gannaz - http://www.littre.org
   - licence Creative Commons Attribution

Phonétique du mot « orgueil »

     Mot   Phonétique (Alphabet Phonétique International) Prononciation
   orgueil ɔrgœj

Fréquence d'apparition du mot « orgueil » dans le journal Le Monde

   Source : Gallicagram. Créé par Benjamin Azoulay et Benoît de Courson,
   Gallicagram représente graphiquement l’évolution au cours du temps de
   la fréquence d’apparition d’un ou plusieurs syntagmes dans les corpus
   numérisés de Gallica et de beaucoup d’autres bibliothèques.

Évolution historique de l’usage du mot « orgueil »

   Source : Google Books Ngram Viewer, application linguistique permettant
   d’observer l’évolution au fil du temps du nombre d'occurrences d’un ou
   de plusieurs mots dans les textes publiés.

Citations contenant le mot « orgueil »

     *

     On est orgueilleux par nature, modeste par nécessité. Pierre Reverdy
     — En Vrac
     *

     Le diable essuie sa queue avec l’orgueil du pauvre. Proverbe
     espagnol
     *

     La louange affermit notre orgueil, cependant que notre orgueil nous
     certifie la sincérité de la louange. Jean Rostand — De la vanité
     *

     Mon orgueil s'est coloré avec la pourpre de ma honte. Jean Genet —
     Journal du voleur, Gallimard
     *

     L’homme est l’orgueil du cèdre emplissant le roseau. Victor Hugo —
     Les Contemplations
     *

     Quand orgueil chevauche devant, Honte et dommage suivent de près.
     Proverbe français
     *

     Trop d’humilité est demi-orgueil. Proverbe yiddish
     *

     La vanité est l’écume de l’orgueil. Alphonse Karr
     *

     On peut désirer par amour-propre d'être délivré de l'amour-propre,
     comme l'on peut souhaiter l'humilité par orgueil. Pierre Nicole —
     Essais de morale, Des diverses manières dont on tente Dieu
     *

     Le comble de l'orgueil, c'est de se mépriser soi-même. Gustave
     Flaubert

   Voir toutes les citations du mot « orgueil » →

Traductions du mot « orgueil »

    Langue   Traduction
   Anglais   pride
--

   Source : Google Translate API

Synonymes de « orgueil »

     * prétention
     * amour-propre
--
     * insolence
     * suffisance

   Source : synonymes de orgueil sur lebonsynonyme.fr

Antonymes de « orgueil »

     * bassesse
     * componction
--
     * modestie
     * simplicité

Combien de points fait le mot orgueil au Scrabble ?

   Nombre de points du mot orgueil au scrabble : 8 points

Classement par ordre alphabétique des définitions des mots français

--
     * Y
     * Z

   Définition de orgueil présentée par lalanguefrancaise.com - Ces
   définitions du mot orgueil sont données à titre indicatif et
   proviennent de dictionnaires libres de droits. Les informations
   complémentaires relatives au mot orgueil sont éditées par l’équipe
   éditoriale de lalanguefrancaise.com

   Ce mot fait partie de la catégorie des mots français de 7 lettres.
--

   La langue française © 2024

   Orgueil

   Retour au sommaire ➦
   Partager</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-23">
<text>    2. Découvrir
    3. Dictionnaire
    4. o
    5. orgueil

   Dictionnaire
   ____________________________________________________________
   (Valider) Valider

orgueil

   définition synonyme

Définition "orgueil"

   n.m.
    1. Opinion exagérément avantageuse de sa propre valeur aux dépens de
--
    3. Satisfaction de soi-même, sentiment élevé de dignité; amour-propre,
       fierté.

Synonyme "orgueil"

   n.m.</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-24">
<text>   (BUTTON) Inspirez-moi !
     * Accueil
     * Pôle Fiction
     * Orgueil et préjugés

   Orgueil et préjugés - Jane Austen Orgueil et préjugés - Jane Austen
   (BUTTON)
   Feuilleter
   Feuilleter
--
   à partir de 13 ans
   (BUTTON) Ma liste

Orgueil et préjugés

   (BUTTON) Ma liste
   Jane Austen n'a pas son pareil pour sonder la turbulence des cœurs, et</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-25">
<text>   des millions d'enfants, et faites un don.
   Association loi 1901, jusqu'à 66 % de déduction fiscale.

Orgueil

   Une page de Vikidia, l’encyclopédie junior
   Aller à la navigation Aller à la recherche
--
   Cet article est à compléter. Il concerne la société.
   Améliore-le ! (Aide)

   un homme orgueilleux et fier de son allure, de son épouse, de sa
   richesse

   L'orgueil est un état d'esprit dans lequel se trouve une personne qui a
   exagérément confiance en elle. Une personne orgueilleuse pense qu'elle
   est capable de faire de grandes choses et mieux que les autres
   personnes, sans tenir compte de ses capacités réelles, de l'avis des
   autres ou de la réalité. Une personne qui s'obstine à essayer quelque
   chose qu'elle est incapable d'accomplir le fait parfois par orgueil.

   Selon l'église catholique, l'orgueil est un des sept péchés capitaux.

Autres nuances[modifier | modifier le wikicode]

--
   société.

   Récupérée de
   « http://fr.vikidia.org/w/index.php?title=Orgueil&amp;oldid=1756167 »
   Catégorie :
     * État d'esprit</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-26">
<text>
     * EN

   Météorite d’Orgueil

   Fil d'Ariane
    1. Accueil
    2. Découvrir
    3. Nos collections
    4. Météorite d’Orgueil

   Roche

   Météorite d’Orgueil

   Ce fragment rocheux venu du ciel, vraisemblablement arraché à une
   comète, est un des fleurons de la collection de météorites du Muséum.
   Météorite d’Orgueil

   Météorite d’Orgueil - Muséum national d’Histoire naturelle
   © MNHN - L.-D. Bayle

   14 mai 1864, un gigantesque météore plus brillant que la Lune est
   aperçu dans tout le sud de la France. L’explosion du bolide au-dessus
   du village d’Orgueil, à proximité de Montauban, libère des dizaines de
   pierres météoritiques.

   De très nombreux fragments ont été collectés par les témoins de
--
   soulignèrent l’analogie de cette matière avec celle provenant de la
   désintégration des organismes vivants sur Terre.

   On sait désormais que la composition chimique de la météorite d’Orgueil
   est identique à celle du Soleil pour un grand nombre d’éléments. Elle
   est donc l’échantillon chimiquement le plus représentatif que nous
   ayons de la matière originelle qui a formé le système solaire. Par
--
   Matthieu Gounelle
   Lire aussi —

   L'histoire de la chute exceptionnelle de la météorite d'Orgueil
     * (BUTTON) Fiche d'identité

        Nom vernaculaire
                Météorite d’Orgueil

        Dimensions
                4 cm, 120 g

        Lieu de collecte
                Orgueil, Tarn-et-Garonne

        Date
                1866</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-27">
<text>   NicolasSarrasin.com » Flux Trouble obsessionnel-compulsif (TOC) et
   psychologie - NicolasSarrasin.com » Flux des commentaires Trouble
   obsessionnel-compulsif (TOC) et psychologie - NicolasSarrasin.com »
   L’orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et s’en débarrasser Flux
   des commentaires alternate alternate alternate

   Trouble obsessionnel-compulsif (TOC) et psychologie -
--
     * Accès achats
     * Compte client

   Accueil >gt; L’orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et s’en
   débarrasser

   Par Vincent Alaux

L’orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et s’en débarrasser

   914
   fb-share-icon
--
   devenir un leader inspirant!

   Vous êtes prêts? Alors voici son article qui porte sur un sujet très
   d’actualité… l’orgueil:

   Je venais à peine de la rencontrer que je voulais déjà m’en éloigner le
   plus loin possible.

   Peu de choses m’énervent autant que l’orgueil. Et cette personne en
   présentait tous les signes.

   Sous prétexte qu’elle avait joué dans quelques films, avec son air
--

   J’ai regardé ma montre, et après un savant calcul, j’ai conclu qu’il me
   restait environ 27 secondes pour partir avant de perdre mon sang-froid.
   L'orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et le détruire

   Pas toujours facile de rester calme!

--
   personne. Elle m’avait tellement agacé que j’ai voulu me préparer à la
   prochaine fois ou je recroiserais quelqu’un comme elle.

   Et ce que j’ai appris sur l’orgueil, je voudrais le partager
   aujourd’hui avec vous afin que vous puissiez mieux reconnaître et gérer
   ce phénomène.

   Cet article va faire de vous un(e) spécialiste de l’orgueil, dans le
   bon sens du terme… ne vous inquiétez pas!

   Il va vous apprendre à distinguer ses signes, expliquer sa différence
--
   plus sereinement…

   Quoi qu’il en soit, je vous propose de commencer en vous expliquant ce
   qu’est vraiment l’orgueil.

L’orgueil qu’est-ce que c’est?

   Une personne victime d’orgueil est quelqu’un qui s’aime… beaucoup trop!

   Elle pense qu’elle vaut mieux que les autres, en raison de ses:
     * Qualités humaines (beauté, force, intelligence…)
--
   Et à déployer cette attitude déplorable, elle attire à elle l’hostilité
   des autres.

   Parce que même si s’aimer est important, l’orgueilleux dépasse les
   limites et agace tout le monde avec son manque d’humilité.
   L'orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et le détruire

   Si vous faites ça, c’est mauvais signe!

   Pire encore, l’orgueilleux fait preuve d’un égoïsme incroyable la
   plupart du temps. Dénué d’empathie, il vit avant tout pour lui.

   Et cet effet négatif sur les autres ne date par d’hier.

   Par exemple, les religions catholique et musulmane jugent l’orgueil
   comme un péché suprême. Elles estiment qu’une personne ne peut pas être
   fière de ce que Dieu lui a donné ou permis d’accomplir.

--

   Bref, ce défaut énerve depuis la nuit des temps!

   Pour faire simple, nous pouvons dire que quelqu’un est orgueilleux
   lorsqu’il se pense supérieur aux autres en raison de ses qualités, de
   ses accomplissements ou de ses richesses.

   Et une différence de poids le sépare de l’arrogant.

La différence entre orgueil et arrogance

   Orgueil et arrogance se ressemblent.

   Pourtant, il existe une différence entre les deux que vous devez
   connaître.

   L’orgueilleux possède une raison à sa fierté démesurée (ses qualités
   humaines, ses accomplissements, ses richesses), alors que l’arrogant se
   pense naturellement meilleur.

   Par exemple, un sportif célèbre qui s’énerve parce qu’on ne l’a pas
   reconnu et qu’on l’oblige à patienter dans une fille d’attente, fait
   preuve d’orgueil.

   En revanche, un adolescent qui refuse de faire la queue comme ses
   camarades, car il estime que son temps est plus précieux que le leur,
   fait preuve d’arrogance.
   L'orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et le détruire

   Moi, je n’attends pas!

   En fait, on pourrait dire qu’à la différence de l’arrogant,
   l’orgueilleux possède certaines raisons de plus d’être insupportable.

   Hormis ceci, ses défauts sont les mêmes. Ils présentent les mêmes
   signes, comportent les mêmes inconvénients et connaissent les mêmes
--
   Découvrons ensemble les huit signes qui vont vous permettre de
   reconnaître ce vilain défaut chez les autres (où chez vous même).

Les huit signes des personnes orgueilleuses

   Il existe huit signes qui permettent d’identifier les gens orgueilleux.

   Rares sont ceux qui les cumulent tous, heureusement!

   Mais si vous reconnaissez la présence de trois signes ou plus chez la
   même personne, vous pouvez probablement la considérer orgueilleuse.

1. Adorer être au centre de l’attention

   L'orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et le détruire

   Les orgueilleux pensent être les personnes les plus intéressantes du
   monde.

   Ils adorent parler d’eux même et de leurs exploits pendant des heures.
--

2. Vouloir toujours avoir raison

   Une personne orgueilleuse ne se trompe jamais… Du moins, elle le pense.

   Le fait qu’elle puisse faire une erreur ne lui traversera jamais
   l’esprit.
--

3. Couper sans cesse la parole

   L'orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et le détruire

   Les orgueilleux méprisent l’opinion des autres. Ils n’aiment pas
   écouter les avis différents et pensent avoir les choses les plus
   importantes à dire.

--

4. Accorder plus d’importance à son statut qu’à son rôle réel

   Les personnes avec de l’orgueil apprécient ce qui les met en valeur, à
   commencer par les titres grandioses.

   Elles aiment qu’on les appelle “président”, “directeur” ou
--

5. Mépriser les gens faibles ou différents

   Une personne orgueilleuse aime s’entourer de gens “à son niveau”.

   Pour les identifier, elle fixe des “standards” pour évaluer la qualité
   d’une personne.
--
   Et elle jugera comme inférieure toute personne qui n’atteint pas ces
   standards.

   D’ailleurs, les orgueilleux aiment noter les faiblesses et les défauts
   des autres, qu’ils utilisent ensuite pour se moquer d’eux et se mettre
   en avant.

--

6. Avoir du mal à trouver des amis ou un partenaire amoureux

   L'orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et le détruire

   Comment trouver amis et amour lorsque personne ne nous arrive à la
   cheville?

   Telle est la dure existence des orgueilleux.

   Leurs standards sont si élevés qu’ils ne donnent une chance à quasiment
   personne.
--
   fautes, ne s’excusent pas et ne pardonnent pas, car ils se pensent trop
   bons pour ça…

   Au final, les orgueilleux ont souvent des mauvais rapports avec les
   autres. Mais l’isolement ne les gêne pas toujours.

   Après tout, pourquoi chercher l’amour ou l’amitié quand on trône déjà
--

7. Juger plus durement les autres

   Un orgueilleux est un illusionniste qui se trompe lui-même.

   Il existe un fossé entre sa perception et la réalité. Il se surestime
   et ne s’en rend pas compte.
--
   une attaque personnelle. Soit il vous ignorera, soit il s’en prendra à
   vous.

   En plus, l’orgueilleux peut se donner le droit de faire choses qu’il ne
   tolère pas chez les autres.

   Par exemple il peut arriver en retard mais refuser d’attendre quelqu’un
--
8. Vouloir diriger


   L'orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et le détruire

   Un orgueilleux croit que sa supériorité en fait un candidat de choix
   pour diriger les autres.

   Comme il aime penser qu’il sait mieux que tout le monde, il veut que
--
   En revanche, il déteste qu’on lui donne des ordres ou qu’il doive
   rendre des comptes à un supérieur.

   Voilà, vous savez maintenant reconnaître l’orgueil!

   Mais peut-être vous dites-vous simplement qu’une personne orgueilleuse
   est seulement quelqu’un qui a confiance en soi et qui le montre?

   Grave erreur!

   Il existe une grande différence entre une saine confiance et un vil
   orgueil, ce que nous allons aborder maintenant.

La différence entre l’orgueil et la confiance

   Beaucoup d’entre nous faisons l’erreur de confondre confiance et
   orgueil.

   Cette confusion nous porte à avoir peur que le fait de devenir confiant
   nous transformera en insupportable orgueilleux.

   Pourtant un monde sépare les personnes confiantes des orgueilleux!

   La première chose qui les distingue est leur amour d’eux-mêmes. Une
   personne confiante s’aime, mais avec modération. Humble, elle ne se
--
   des difficultés, à remercier chaleureusement ceux qui l’assistent, et à
   vanter leurs mérites autour de lui.

   L’orgueilleux est en compétition constante avec les autres; le confiant
   concourt contre lui-même. Il cherche à faire de son mieux et à
   progresser. Il se juge avec honnêteté et lucidité.

   Ainsi, un orgueilleux, fier d’être parmi les vingt meilleurs joueur de
   tennis français, se sentira minable si il joue contre Federer et perd
   lourdement.

--
   et j’admire sa dextérité, mais avec du travail peut être qu’un jour
   j’arriverais à son niveau”.

   L'orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et le détruire

   Le confiant ne se croit pas “supérieur” aux autre. Il sait qu’il
   excelle dans certains domaines, mais considère que sa valeur en tant
--
   leur estime. Il sait aussi qu’il peut se tromper et ne prend pas les
   avis contraires comme des attaques personnelles.

   Vous l’aurez compris, l’orgueil partage peu de point communs avec la
   confiance.

   Mais pour autant, peut-il apporter un avantage? C’est ce que nous
   allons voir!

Existe-t-il un avantage à être orgueilleux?

   Vous l’aurez compris au début de cet article: je ne supporte pas les
   orgueilleux.

   Pourtant, malgré cette aversion, je dois reconnaître que l’orgueil
   donne un avantage: il peut être un super moteur et tirer vers les
   sommets.

--
   raisons, mais il se dépassera quand même.

   D’ailleurs, si le sport professionnel compte autant d’athlètes
   orgueilleux, c’est que ce vilain défaut peut aussi donner un mental de
   conquérant.

   Prenons le cas de Mohammed Ali.

   L'orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et le détruire

   Tout au long de sa carrière, il nous a gratifiés de citations à bondir.

--

   Mais le monde sportif n’est qu’un exemple parmi d’autres.

   L’orgueil touche tous les milieux et toutes les époques, par
   exemple: Alexandre le Grand, Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, Picasso…

   La personne orgueilleuse met la barre plus haut que les autres. Elle
   cherche à se forger un grand destin et n’hésite pas à se mettre en
   avant. Et cette attitude lui permet d’accomplir des merveilles.

   Pour autant, l’orgueil implique aussi d’horribles inconvénients. En
   voici quatre que nous allons découvrir maintenant.

Quatre inconvénients de l’orgueil

1. Il met en danger

   Ce décès m’avait marqué, car pour la première fois de ma vie je me
   rendais compte que l’orgueil pouvait tuer.

   Un Navy Seal, nageur des forces spéciales américaines, participait à
   une après-midi de rafting avec ses amis.

   L'orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et le détruire

   Pour lui, cet événement était plus l’occasion de resserrer ses liens
   d’amitiés que de ressentir des sensations fortes. Car la “vraie”
--
   branche sous l’eau. Ne pouvant pas remonter à la surface, ni enlever le
   gilet à cause de la force du courant, il se noya.

   Cet homme venait de gâcher sa vie et celle de ses proches par orgueil.
   Car s’il avait accepté l’aide de l’instructeur, il aurait survécu, mais
   il se croyait trop “fort” pour ça…

   Et c’est l’un des grands problèmes des orgueilleux: ils se surestiment
   et se mettent en danger. Et parfois, la vie les surprend et les
   assomme.

--

2. Il détruit le potentiel

   En plus de rendre moins prudent, l’orgueil rend idiot.

   Car un orgueilleux possède toujours des bonnes excuses pour justifier
   ses erreurs.

   Au lieu de les assumer et d’en chercher la cause, il préfère se
--
   Dans la même situation, une personne humble analyse son échec, trouve
   les raisons, s’adapte et s’améliore.

   Et l’incapacité à écouter les autres empire le cas des orgueilleux.
   L'orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et le détruire

   L’effet de l’orgueil sur votre potentiel…

   Car prendre du recul sur soi-même est très difficile, et nous avons
   tous besoin d’avis externes pour nous améliorer.
--
   progresser. Si même Aristote avait un mentor, c’est que l’avis des
   autres nous rend plus fort.

   Mais l’orgueilleux préfère boucher ses oreilles et se bercer dans
   l’illusion qu’il est déjà le meilleur…

3. Il attire la haine
--
   Et combien de fois, au lieu d’une brise fraîche, j’ai vu débarquer dans
   ma chambre une armée de papillons de nuit, frelons et punaises, attirés
   par la lumière brillante.
   L'orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et le détruire

   Coucou, c’est nous!

   L’orgueil a le même effet sur la haine des gens que la lumière sur ces
   insectes, il l’attire à lui!

   Faire preuve d’orgueil revient à se dessiner une cible dans le dos. Car
   quand quelqu’un manque de considération aux personnes autour de lui,
   celles-ci n’ont plus qu’une idée en tête: lui montrer qu’il ne vaut pas
   mieux qu’eux.
--
   ma détermination.

   Personne n’apprécie qu’on le prenne de haut. Au travail aussi, tout le
   monde évite les orgueilleux, car ils s’attribuent les mérites des
   autres et ne peuvent pas s’empêcher de se mettre en avant aux dépens du
   groupe.

--
   On peut parfois penser que se prendre pour quelqu’un d’exceptionnel
   rend la vie meilleure.

   En vérité, la vie de l’orgueilleux ressemble à une magnifique pomme
   rouge rongée par les vers: malgré un extérieur parfait, tout est pourri
   à l’intérieur.
   L'orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et le détruire

   Pourri à l’intérieur…

--
   Parce qu’il y aura toujours quelqu’un de plus doué, de plus travailleur
   ou de plus chanceux que nous.

   Et les orgueilleux les plus extrêmes vont jusqu’à frauder ou tricher
   juste pour montrer au monde combien ils sont forts, ce qui détruit leur
   vie quand ils sont démasqués.

   Maintenant que vous connaissez les avantages et les inconvénients de
   l’orgueil, découvrez comment vous en débarrasser.

Les quatre étapes pour se débarrasser de l’orgueil une bonne fois pour toutes

   Je ne sais pas ce que vous en pensez mais, à mes yeux, les
   inconvénients de l’orgueil ne compensent pas ses avantages.

   Loin de là.

   Et je pense que se libérer de ce vilain défaut doit être une priorité
   pour tout orgueilleux qui veut être plus heureux.

   Mais, par où commencer?

   Pour vous aider, j’ai identifié les quatre principales étapes pour se
   débarrasser de son orgueil.

1. Questionner la notion de supériorité et détruire ses œillères

--
   trois individus n’est “meilleur” que l’autre, chacun possède ses forces
   et ses faiblesses.

   Mais les orgueilleux jugent la valeur des autres avec les mêmes
   critères qu’ils jugent la leur.

   Prenons un richissime milliardaire et un magnifique mannequin.
--

   La notion de supériorité est donc relative.

   Celui qui veut se débarrasser de son orgueil doit se rendre compte que
   se comparer aux autres revient à comparer des pommes et des calmars.

   Il doit apprendre à accorder aux autres le droit à la différence.
--
   accomplissements des autres.

   Par exemple, un titre de champion régional de pétanque ne doit pas
   amener un orgueilleux à penser qu’il vaut mieux que son voisin, qui a
   seulement inventé le vaccin contre le cancer.

   Et puis, à part dans les films, je ne connais personne qui soit fort en
   tout.
   L'orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et le détruire

   Ne prenez pas la grosse tête!

--
   Ceux qui courent après tout n’obtiennent jamais rien. Bien vivre c’est
   savoir renoncer.

   Pour se débarrasser de son orgueil, il faut commencer par accepter que
   certaines personnes préfèrent renoncer à des choses différentes des
   nôtres.

   Donc personne n’est “supérieur”, tout le monde est différent.

   Et pour détruire son orgueil, rien de mieux que de participer à des
   activités dans lesquelles on est nul.

   On se rend vite compte que gagner 1 million d’euros par jour ou avoir
--

2. Prendre conscience de sa chance

   On peut dire beaucoup de mal des orgueilleux, mais on ne peut pas leur
   enlever une chose: ils ont du mérite.

   Ils peuvent passer des heures à transpirer pour pouvoir exhiber un
--

   Par exemple, Bill Gates aurait connu un tout autre destin s’il était né
   dans un bidonville de Mumbai.
   L'orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et le détruire

   Mieux vaut naître à Seattle qu’ici!

--
   Et sans Jay-Z pour la mettre sur le devant de la scène, Rihanna ne
   serait jamais devenue l’icône d’une génération…

   La chance joue un rôle magistral dans nos vies, et les orgueilleux
   doivent en prendre conscience.

   Elle n’enlève rien au mérite, mais elle fournit une opportunité de
   réussir. Et elle ne la propose pas à tout le monde.

   En montrant à un orgueilleux combien il a été chanceux, on l’aide à
   remettre en question sa supériorité et on le guide vers la bonne
   direction.

3. Demander leur avis aux autres, reconnaître et accepter ses défauts

   Un orgueilleux peut décréter qu’il n’a pas de défauts, car il est
   parfait.

   Tout comme je peux annoncer au monde que je suis le fils caché d’Elvis
   ou de Chewbacca…
   L'orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et le détruire

   Papa?

   L’orgueilleux peut toujours choisir de se voiler la face, mais
   interroger les autres lui permettra de vite “redescendre sur terre”.

   Pour guérir de son orgueil, il peut leur demander de faire la liste de
   ses faiblesses et de ses défauts. Sauf que, cette fois-ci, au lieu
   d’ignorer ces remarques, il se demandera “et s’ils avaient raison?”

   Au bout de plusieurs discussions de ce type, des thèmes se
   distingueront. Et l’orgueilleux doit agir sur ceux-ci en premier.

   Autant vous dire que cet exercice fait mal.

--
   maison, et qu’on vous informe que tout ce temps vous aviez un gros trou
   béant dans le mur.

   Et l’orgueilleux va devoir accepter qu’il n’est pas parfait, et qu’il
   ne le sera jamais, ce que la chercheuse américaine Brené Brown appelle
   “être vulnérable”.

--
   Elle débarrasse de l’épuisant fardeau de la perfection. Se rendre
   compte qu’on peut réussir sa vie malgré ses défauts amène à prendre
   tout avec plus de légèreté.
   L'orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et le détruire

   Libérez-vous du fardeau de la perfection

--
   accepte plus facilement celles des autres et on commence à mieux
   communiquer.

   La personne orgueilleuse cessera d’en vouloir à son cousin Gérard
   toujours en retard. Car elle sait qu’il ne fait pas exprès et qu’il
   n’arriverait pas à l’heure même si il avait un rendez-vous avec le
   président.
--
   On peut se placer dans un rapport d’égaux, et avoir des relations
   saines et positives.

   Enfin, la dernière étape pour se débarrasser de son orgueil consiste à
   le transformer en confiance.

4. Transformer son stérile orgueil en confiance féconde

   Et si vous gardiez les avantages de l’orgueil sans souffrir de ses
   inconvénients?

   Y arriver demande une chose simple: arrêter de se comparer aux autres.
--
   Mais pas la peine de prendre la grosse tête pour autant, car le Kényan
   qui a remporté la course avait déjà pris une douche, avalé un sandwich
   et signé 92 autographes quand vous avez franchi la ligne d’arrivée.
   L'orgueil: le guide complet pour le comprendre et le détruire

   Soyez fier, mais pas trop non plus!

--

En conclusion

   Pour résumer ce que nous avons vu dans cet article, l’orgueil est le
   fait de penser qu’on vaut mieux que les autres en raison de ses
   qualités, ses richesses ou ses accomplissements.

   Il ne faut pas le confondre avec la confiance.

   Les orgueilleux présentent les signes suivants:
     * Adorer être au centre de l’attention;
     * Vouloir toujours avoir raison;
     * Couper sans cesse la parole;
--
     * Vouloir tout diriger.

   Si vous reconnaissez au moins trois de ces signes chez une personne,
   vous pouvez probablement la considérer comme orgueilleuse.

   L’orgueil peut agir comme un formidable moteur et tirer vers les
   sommets, mais il met aussi en danger, détruit le potentiel, attire la
   haine et gâche la vie.

--
       œillères
     * Prendre conscience de sa chance
     * Demander leur avis aux autres, reconnaître et accepter ses défauts
     * Transformer son néfaste orgueil en saine confiance

   De cette façon on peut se débarrasser à tout jamais de ce vilain défaut
   et améliorer sa vie et celle des autres autour de soi.

   Si vous voulez aller plus loin au sujet de l’orgueil, voici plusieurs
   de mes ressources qui peuvent vous aider:
     * Mon ebook Qui suis-je? Comment s’accepter, s’affirmer et ne plus
       s’auto-saboter, pour s’épanouir aborde directement ce sujet et
--
     * De même que mon livre sur le syndrome de l’imposteur, un problème
       qui implique beaucoup d’identité.

   Notez également que l’orgueil est un des traits de personnalité
   principaux du manipulateur. Lisez mon article sur le sujet pour mieux
   comprendre son rôle chez les personnes manipulatrices (les pervers
   narcissiques).
--
   Alvyne a écrit
       16 septembre 2018 à 14:02
       Léger et percutant ! Du grand art. Merci
       Et quelle est la frontière entre un orgueilleux et un pervers
       narcissique ?
          +
        Nicolas Sarrasin a écrit
            16 septembre 2018 à 14:19
            L’orgueilleux et le pervers narcissique semblent se situer sur
            un même continuum. Puisqu’il existe différents niveaux et
            contextes à l’orgueil, je serais porté à poser le pervers
            narcissique à un niveau très élevé d’orgueil où toute remise
            en question est impossible et où la domination des autres
            semble être devenu la seule option disponible pour continuer
            d’exister à ses propres yeux.
            Mais l’orgueilleux autant que le pervers narcissiques
            partagent une même base, c’est-à-dire une grande fragilité au
            niveau de leur identité:
            https://www.nicolassarrasin.com/identite-apprendre-a-nous-conn
--
            d’avoir raison, grande difficulté ou incapacité à avouer ses
            torts, etc.), le pervers narcissique vise à asseoir son
            pouvoir et à dominer (manipulation, méchanceté, etc.), ce qui
            n’est pas nécessairement le cas des orgueilleux.
            Il n’est donc pas facile de tracer une ligne de démarcation
            claire compte tenu des la complexité des gens et des contextes
            dans lesquels s’inscrivent les relations.
--
       Merci beaucoup pour cet article que je trouve très bien écrit et
       très juste. C’est une analyse humaine perspicace, humaniste et
       encourageante, on sent que vous devez avoir bien pratiqué les
       “orgueilleux” pour avoir cette réflexion!
       J’avoue (aujourd’hui ouvertement) que je me reconnais dans cette
       maladie appelée “orgueil” et que je travaille dessus depuis
       plusieurs années. Cela demande beaucoup d’efforts mais la
       reconstruction progresse dans le bon sens, ça fait du bien! Pas
       facile quand il s’agit d’une pathologie familiale non plus… Mais
--
            vous en remercie de sa part. 🙂
            J’en profite aussi pour vous féliciter de travailler à votre
            épanouissement personnel, particulièrement si vous considérez
            que l’orgueil vous touche. En effet, le propre des personnes
            orgueilleuses est de refuser toute remise en question. Alors
            le simple fait d’admettre qu’il vous touche illustre votre
            ouverture et le fait que vous avez déjà parcouru un très beau
            chemin dans la bonne direction.
--
            en fait tout le contraire mais je n’en avais pas conscience!
            Interroger mes proches et écouter leurs avis m’a permis
            progressivement de dénouer les nœuds.
            Pour encourager les éventuels orgueilleux qui liraient cet
            article, je dirais que ce travail m’a permis (et me permet
            toujours) d’envisager d’une autre façon les rapports humains,
            avec plus de douceur et de bienveillance qu’auparavant ! C’est
--
       Bonjour,
       Je vous remercie énormément pour cet article, car il m’aidera dans
       mon avenir proche et lointain. Je me considère comme une personne
       orgueilleuse mais aussi confiante par moment. Car je me dis que
       l’orgueil a des vilains défauts et des qualités aussi. J’ai un ami
       que je considère comme orgueilleux et, sincèrement, deux
       orgueilleux ne peuvent s’entendre. Si tel est le cas que j’en suis
       un, j’ai l’impression que je donne beaucoup plus d’importance aux
       autres et, en retour, je n’en reçois vraiment rien. Ces personnes
       me connaissent que quand elles ont des services à me demander.
       J’essaie de me remettre en question par moment si suis orgueilleux,
       narcissique ou trop confiant. Je me fâche très vite mais je sais
       aussi vite pardonner et sévir quand il faut montrer à la personne
       que ça ne doit plus jamais se répéter. J’ai quitté mon groupe de
       travail il y a deux jours pour travailler seul car j’en avais marre
       depuis deux ans qu’à chaque fois qu’on a un projet, je suis
       toujours cette personne qui prend l’initiative de booster les
       autres, de faire tout. Suis-je orgueilleux à cause de cet acte? Je
       n’en sais vraiment rien mais, sans vous mentir, mon ami en question
       me fou grave les boules mais je l’aime. J’aime pas courir derrière
       les gens.
--
    6.
   Nghi Do a écrit
       5 mai 2019 à 19:42
       L’orgueil. C’est la source première et la cause des maladies les
       plus graves: il peut détruire et ruiner tout ce qui est bon dans
       une âme. L’orgueil est la racine et la source de toutes les
       maladies spirituelles et peut saccager toutes les vertus, y compris
       l’humilité. Cette passion est une source de souffrance. Il se
       montre aussi perpétuellement insatisfait et n’est jamais dans la
--
   Jacques a écrit
       9 mai 2019 à 00:03
       J’ai lu et relu et je peux dire que tu fais une analyse
       spectaculaire et je dirai même que tu es un ancien orgueilleux
       tellement tu es précis dans ce que tu dis. A vrai dire, je suis
       conscient que je suis orgueilleux mais je fais tout pour être
       humble depuis des années mais c’est ZÉRO. Et je me dis comme cela
       que c’est mon destin, je dois l’accepter.
       Cependant est-ce qu’une personne qui n’était pas orgueilleuse
       auparavant ne peut pas le devenir en raison d’une blessure physique
       qui lui fait perdre confiance en elle et, donc, développe un
       comportement orgueilleux pour se protéger des moqueries, etc.
          +
        Vincent a écrit
            10 mai 2019 à 10:59
            Bonjour Jacques,
            Merci pour le compliment, effectivement j’ai eu quelques
            tendances à l’orgueil par le passé.
            Vous avez tout à fait raison, on peut devenir orgueilleux par
            réaction défensive.
            Et justement pour perdre son orgueil il faut accepter de
            baisser la garde, même si parfois ça fait mal ! Je vous
            conseille la lecture des ouvrages de Brene Brown à ce sujet.
    8.
   Fred a écrit
       12 mai 2019 à 08:19
       L’orgueil est un outil que j’ai utilisé pour évoluer. Dans ce monde
       très dur, je pense qu’il faut effectivement se munir d’une carapace
       pour avancer. Ainsi, c’est avec beaucoup d’orgueil que j’ai évolué
       du statut de fonctionnaire de base à cadre dirigeant dans
       l’administration parisienne. Aujourd’hui, une fois l’objectif
       atteint, j’ai pris confiance en moi et j’ai mis de côté cet orgueil
       pour m’intéresser aux autres. S’il fallait recommencer, je ferais
       la même chose. Il faut parfois penser à soi car malheureusement
       personne ne le fera pour toi. Cette période a été dure mais le
--
    9.
   Denis a écrit
       23 octobre 2019 à 02:59
       L’orgueil est, oui je pense, dans la même lignée que le pervers
       narcissique.
       L’orgueilleux génère du stress autour de lui.
       L’orgueil est une maladie, c’est LA grande maladie des 20 derniers
       siècles.
       Si on arrivait à guérir les orgueilleux, la Terre tournerait mieux.
       Connaissez-vous des orgueilleux en rémission ?
   10.
   John a écrit
       5 novembre 2019 à 13:53
       Je tiens à féliciter et à remercier l’auteur de cet article et
       l’auteur de ce blog.
       Je suis une personne ayant souffert d’orgueil presque toute ma vie.
       Et le contexte qui a permis à cette maladie de naître et de se
       développer dans mon cœur est, je pense, fortement dû à un manque
       d’amour et d’attention (énorme) dans mes premiers environnements
--
       Mes parents eux-mêmes ont souffert de ces carences.
       J’ai longtemps, si ce n’est toute ma vie, cherché à impressionner
       les autres, à me valoriser dans le regard des autres.
       L’orgueil, c’est une maladie du cœur qui semble avoir rongé
       gravement autant ma famille paternelle que maternelle…
       J’ai donc hérité de (la disposition à) cette terrible maladie.
       Et presque tout, si ce n’est tout, les points que vous avez cités
       m’ont fait sentir concerné.
       On m’avait déjà fait des remarques, autant physiques que verbales,
       sur ma façon d’être. Mais l’orgueil était tel que parler à un mur
       n’aurait littéralement pas fait de différence.
       Une série de péripéties m’a ramené petit à petit à la raison.
       Il est très dur, une fois les racines fermement ancrées, de sortir
       des terres de l’orgueil.
       C’est un cercle très vicieux.
       Ça nécessite des efforts, qui devront sourcer d’autres choses que
       le moteur qu’on avait l’habitude d’utiliser.
--
       l'(hyper)marginalisation, de la toxicomanie.
       Et de la perversion narcissique manipulatrice très également comme
       vous l’avez très bien souligné…
       Je rejoins l’avis de @Denis, l’orgueil est la plus grave des
       maladies de tout les temps.
       Et je souhaite vraiment en guérir. Et je souhaite que ceux qui en
       souffrent également puissent guérir.
--
       le potentiel de nous rendre vraiment utile pour les autres.
       J’aimerai faire une dernière remarque. Il y a une immensité de
       facteurs, dans les sociétés mondialistes (et celles qui s’en
       inspirent), qui semblent vouloir exacerber cet orgueil en nous.
       Les jeux-vidéos (autant que les sports de compét’), les mauvaises
       nouvelles/reportages malsains à foison à la TV (parfois fausses!),
       la musique omniprésente (exacerbation de l’amygdale!), une vie
--
   John a écrit
       5 novembre 2019 à 14:52
       Pardon Nicolas. Je tenais juste à préciser par rapport à mon
       témoignage qu’avant, dans mon évolution dans l’orgueil aveugle, je
       n’avais pas de discours intérieurs. Sauf quand il fallait chercher
       des excuses.
       Le reste du temps n’était que ressassement de douleurs
--
       toujours sans dialogues…
       Un autre symptôme qui vient renforcer la piste identitaire
       originaire. Voilà comment c’était dans la tête de quelqu’un de
       (très) orgueilleux…
          +
        Nicolas Sarrasin a écrit
            6 novembre 2019 à 10:21
--
       8 janvier 2020 à 13:58
       Je suis contente d’avoir trouvé cet article.
       Suite à plusieurs événements, j’ai perdu confiance en moi et j’ai
       développé de l’orgueil.
       Par exemple j’ai besoin de reconnaissance constante ou bien d’avoir
       raison jusqu’à dire n’importe quoi. Ça me rend folle. Bien que
       votre article illustre l’orgueil, je ne trouve malheureusement pas
       vraiment comment changer ce schéma dans lequel je me suis fourrée.
       Ce n’est pas juste en sachant quelque chose qu’on le change.
       J’aimerais tellement comprendre comme retrouver confiance en moi
       pour me débarrasser de mon besoin de reconnaissance et d’avoir
       raison…
       Je vois clairement le chemin qui m’a mené a cet orgueil,
       personnellement, mais également par ce que j’ai vécu. Je déteste le
       fait d’être orgueilleuse parce que la conséquence est que je suis
       déconnectée des autres et je ne m’aide pas à évoluer ni à
       développer le potentiel des autres.
       C’est frustrant vraiment de savoir tour ça et de ne pas comprendre
--
        Nicolas Sarrasin a écrit
            8 janvier 2020 à 14:26
            Bonjour,
            L’orgueil est une question complexe qui fait appel au vécu,
            aux émotions, à la personnalité, à l’identité, etc. Il est
            donc impossible de référer à des ressources “one size fits
            all”. C’est pourquoi l’article de Vincent contient des
            références à mes livres pour aller plus loin:
            – Mon livre sur l’identité et l’estime de soi
            – Mon livre sur la confiance
            Et l’orgueil est un sujet qui peut facilement être abordé en
            psychothérapie. Les psychologues sont bien outillés pour nous
            faire évoluer sur le sujet et je réfère aussi dans cet article
            à une ressources pour consulter facilement et à distance.
--
   Florian a écrit
       23 avril 2020 à 17:00
       Mais quel article !
       Est-ce que se sentir supérieur aux orgueilleux, c’est faire preuve
       d’orgueil ? :p
       Une des plus grandes qualités des hommes et des femmes
       charismatiques, c’est bien l’humilité. Rien de plus beau, charmant,
       magnifique qu’une personne humble, qui sait d’où elle vient, et qui</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-28">
<text>     * Psychologues /
     * Confiance en soi /
     * Articles /
     * L'ego et l'orgueil : comment faire baisser leur emprise sur nous ?

   Prendre un rendez-vous Online

L'ego et l'orgueil : comment faire baisser leur emprise sur nous ?

   <lt;strong>gt;Article révisé<lt;/strong>gt; par le

   Article révisé par le Comité Psychologue.net

   L'ego et l'orgueil sont deux excroissances de notre mental. Comment se
   manifestent-ils ? Quelle est la différence entre les deux ? Comment
   faire baisser leur emprise sur nous ?
   29 JUIN 2020 · Lecture : min.
   Confiance en soi
   L'ego et l'orgueil : comment faire baisser leur emprise sur nous ?

   Je vous propose un rapide regard sur les notions d'ego et d'orgueil.
   L'égo, c'es la somme de nos mémoires, croyances (ce que l'on tient pour
   vrai) et peurs. L'égo pilote nos vies quand il nous oblige à... ou nous
   empêche de...
--
   adapterons à nos faiblesses. Nous lâcherons l'illusion de la perfection
   et de certains codes (religieux, sociétaux, familiaux...).

2/ Quand on passe dans l’orgueil, c'est entre nous et l'autre

   Cela se manifeste par :
     * la vanité, au niveau du paraître,
     * la vantardise, on ne met en avant que ses points positifs et d'une
       manière qui rabaisse les autres,
     * la fausse modestie pour obtenir encore plus de louanges,
     * l'orgueil intellectuel : je sais mieux que l'autre,
     * l'orgueil spirituel : je suis ou je vaux plus que l'autre,
     * le snobisme, quand on regarde les autres de haut,
     * toutes sortes d'entêtements, quand on :
     * --- veut avoir raison à tout prix
--
       critique quelqu'un d'autre.

   Je pense qu'arrivé à la fin de la liste, non exhaustive, vous devez
   avoir prix conscience que vous êtes parfois ou souvent orgueilleux.

   Nous partageons tous cela. Ainsi, inutile de donner encore de la
   matière à notre ego en nous en voulant d'être orgueilleux.

   L'orgueil dans ses différentes formes est toujours la démonstration
   d'un grand manque de confiance en soi. Je vous invite donc à
   reconnaître la souffrance sous ces comportements et à avoir de la
   compassion pour vous et pour les autres.
--
   nos erreurs sans pour autant nous miner e nos réussites sans vouloir en
   montrer aux autres...

   Apprivoiser notre égo et notre orgueil se fait petit à petit à chaque
   fois qu'on fait un acte d'amour pour soi et qu'on se dirige vers ce que
   l'on désire ou ce dont on a besoin, au lieu de laisser nos peurs nous
   influencer. c'est également oser montrer notre vulnérabilité.</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-29">
<text>   [ ] Expressions
   [ ] Conjugaisons

orgueil -

   Sommaire
     * Définitions</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-30">
<text>
     Entrée de dictionnaire

                                    ORGUEIL

                        Démarrer l'expérience SELAH
   SELAH est un mot qui signifie "pause" en hébreu, et que l'on retrouve
--

   Voir les versets relatifs

   L'A. T, revient sans cesse sur l'orgueil et n'emploie pas moins de
   douze mots pour le désigner. On voit par là qu'il lui attribue une
   capitale importance et qu'il en connaît la complexité. L'orgueil est un
   amour déréglé de soi-même ; il est l'état d'un homme qui se surfait,
   s'admire dans ses oeuvres, se prête des qualités qu'il n'a pas et qui
   s'ingénie pour que les autres partagent l'opinion qu'il a de lui-même.
   Murray a dit : « L'humilité n'est pas tant une vertu entre d'autres que
   la racine de toutes les vertus » ; on peut dire de même que l'orgueil
   n'est pas tant un vice entre d'autres que la racine de tous les vices.
   L'humilité exhale un parfum qui donne du prix à toutes les vertus ;
   l'orgueil porte en lui un ferment qui fait éclore tous les vices.
   L'envie, c'est l'orgueil ne pouvant prendre son parti des avantages
   d'autrui ; la colère nous montre l'orgueil réagissant contre ce qui lui
   résiste ; la jalousie naît de l'insupportable impression produite sur
   l'orgueil par une supériorité qui s'impose ; le mensonge lui-même n'est
   bien souvent que l'orgueil qui se couvre et se masque, espérant par son
   faux visage retenir l'estime qu'il ne mérite pas. On a observé que
   personne autant que l'orgueilleux n'aime à faire parade de son humilité
   et des exigences de sa conscience. Cette parade, qui est contredite par
   leur allure hautaine et par leurs mesquins partis pris, attira aux
   pharisiens l'apostrophe de Jésus : « Hypocrites (ou comédiens), vous
--
   justice, la miséricorde, la bonne foi, l'amour de Dieu » (Mt 6 et Mt
   23).

   « L'orgueil, dit La Rochefoucauld, n'est jamais mieux déguisé et plus
   capable de tromper que lorsqu'il se cache sous la figure de
   l'humilité. »

   On voit les ravages que cause l'orgueil dans la vie morale. Dans la vie
   religieuse, où l'humilité est l'introductrice de la grâce, les effets
   de l'orgueil sont plus redoutables encore. Il est à l'âme ce que la
   lèpre est au corps, il enlaidit, il ronge, il tue, c'est pourquoi l'on
   rencontre des hommes qui, au début de leur carrière chrétienne,
   exerçaient par leur enthousiasme une véritable attirance, mais qui,
   parvenus à une situation où l'orgueil guette les âmes mal assurées, ont
   perdu peu à peu leurs qualités spirituelles et jusqu'à la flamme de
   leur regard.

   Après ces observations générales on comprendra le rôle que l'orgueil
   joue dans la Bible et l'insistance que met celle-ci à prémunir les
   croyants contre l'orgueil. Dès ses premières pages, elle nous avertit
   que l'habileté de l'infernal suggesteur fut d'ensemencer d'orgueil le
   coeur vierge du premier couple humain : « Vous serez comme des
   dieux ! » L'orgueil ayant levé a produit la convoitise ; celle-ci a
   provoqué la désobéissance et l'homme a été chassé du Paradis (Ge 3).
   Dans tout son effort pour sauver l'humanité perdue, Dieu se heurte à
   l'orgueil. Prophètes, psalmistes et sages dénoncent l'orgueil comme un
   compagnon de la méchanceté (Job 20:6 35:12, Ps 31:19 73:6 119:51 123:4,
   Pr 21:24) et de la sottise (Pr 14:3, Ps 59:13) ; ils lui donnent pour
   conséquences la honte, l'humiliation, les divisions, l'effusion du
--
   119:78,122, Esa 13:11 2:12, Os 7:10, Jer 13:9-17, Eze 7:10,24 16:56
   etc.). On sent que pour les prophètes toute la destinée de l'homme et
   en particulier du peuple élu se joue entre les deux pôles : humilité et
   orgueil.

   Les Apocryphes font aussi une large part à l'orgueil (cf. 2Ma 5:21
   9:7,11 15:6, Tob 4:13, Sag 5:8, Sir 13:20 15:8 etc.). Sir 10 renferme
   une saisissante description de l'orgueil qui paraît avoir inspiré un
   passage du Magnificat (cf. Sir 10:14 et suivants et Lu 15:1 et
   suivants). Jésus par son attitude à l'égard des pharisiens sanctionne
   la révélation de l'A.T. Son discours de Mt 23 n'est qu'un réquisitoire,
   et combien brûlant, contre les péchés de l'orgueil. L'orgueil des
   pharisiens les a empêchés d'aller au baptême de Jean-Baptiste ; c'est
   pourquoi, dit Jésus, « ils ont rendu inutile à leur égard le dessein de
   Dieu » (Lu 7:30, cf. Lu 15:1). L'orgueil suggère à l'homme infirme
   qu'il est bien portant, au pécheur qu'il est juste ; Jésus déclare :
   « Ceux qui sont en santé n'ont pas besoin de médecin mais ceux qui se
   portent mal. Je ne suis pas venu appeler des justes mais des pécheurs »
   (Mr 2:13-17). La parabole du pharisien et du péager est ici le texte
   classique : (Lu 18:9-14) « O Dieu, je te rends grâces de ce que je ne
   suis pas comme le reste des hommes. » Celui de qui l'orgueil s'est à ce
   point haussé n'a pas de prochain. Trop distant pour compatir à la peine
   des autres, n'attendez pas qu'il s'accuse ou qu'il cède : s'il
   s'avouait faillible il se diminuerait. L'orgueil installe le coeur dans
   l'atmosphère des résistances. L'orgueil est le grand isolant. S'il nous
   isole des autres, comment ne nous isolerait-il pas de Dieu dont on ne
   peut approcher qu'à travers l'atmosphère de la grâce. « Quiconque
   s'élève sera abaissé. »

   Les apôtres tiennent, sur ce point, le même langage que l'A. T, et
   Jésus. Jacques et Pierre citant Pr 3:34 d'après les LXX s'accordent à
   dire : « Dieu résiste aux orgueilleux, mais il fait grâce aux humbles »
   (Jas 4:6,1Pi 5:5). Jean, se référant au récit de la chute (Ge 3:6),
   écrit : « La convoitise de la chair, la convoitise des yeux et
   l'orgueil de la vie ne viennent pas du Père mais du monde, or le monde
   passe... » (1Jn 2:16 et suivant). On pouvait s'attendre à ce que Paul,
   l'apôtre de la grâce, fût impitoyable pour l'orgueil (Ro 1:30,2Ti 3:2
   et suivants, cf. 1Ti 6:4,1Co 5:2,2Co 12:20, Ro 11:20,1Ti 6:17), et fît
   un devoir aux ministres de l'Évangile de s'en tenir loin (1Ti 3:6, Tit
   1:7). Voir Humilité. Alex. W.
--
            parlent avec insolence contre le juste, avec arrogance et
            dédain !
            24 Aimez l’Eternel, vous, tous ses fidèles ! L’Eternel garde
            les croyants, mais il punit sévèrement les orgueilleux.
         Psaumes 59
            13 Leur bouche pèche à chaque parole de leurs lèvres : qu’ils
            soient pris dans leur propre orgueil ! Ils ne profèrent que
            malédictions et mensonges :
         Psaumes 73
            6 C’est pourquoi ils se parent de l’orgueil comme d’un
            collier, la violence les enveloppe comme un manteau.
         Psaumes 94
            2 Lève-toi, juge de la terre, paie aux orgueilleux le salaire
            qu’ils méritent !
         Psaumes 119
            21 Tu menaces les hommes arrogants, ces maudits qui s’égarent
--
            122 Garantis le bien de ton serviteur ! Ne me laisse pas
            opprimer par des hommes arrogants !
         Psaumes 123
            4 nous en avons plus qu’assez des moqueries des orgueilleux,
            du mépris des hautains !
         Proverbes 3
            34 *Il se moque des moqueurs, mais il fait grâce aux humbles.
         Proverbes 8
            13 Craindre l'Eternel, c'est détester le mal. L'arrogance,
            l'orgueil, la voie du mal et la bouche perverse, voilà ce que
            je déteste.
         Proverbes 11
            2 Quand vient l'orgueil, vient aussi le mépris, mais la
            sagesse est avec les humbles.
         Proverbes 13
            10 Ce n’est que par orgueil qu'on attise les querelles, mais
            la sagesse est avec ceux qui écoutent les conseils.
         Proverbes 14
            3 La bouche du fou émet des paroles orgueilleuses, tandis que
            les lèvres des sages les en préservent.
         Proverbes 16
            5 Tous ceux dont le cœur est orgueilleux font horreur à
            l'Eternel. C’est certain, ils ne resteront pas impunis.
            18 L'arrogance précède la ruine et l'orgueil précède la chute.
         Proverbes 21
            24 L'orgueilleux, l'insolent, voilà ce qu’on appelle un
            moqueur ; il agit avec une arrogance débordante.
         Proverbes 29
            23 L'orgueil d'un homme le conduira à l’humiliation, mais
            celui qui est humble d'esprit obtiendra la gloire.
         Esaïe 2
            12 En effet, l'Eternel, le maître de l’univers, s’est réservé
            un jour contre tout homme orgueilleux et hautain, contre tous
            ceux qui s'élèvent, afin qu'ils soient abaissés,
         Esaïe 13
            11 J’interviendrai contre le monde à cause du mal commis et
            contre les méchants à cause de leurs fautes. Je mettrai un
            terme à l'orgueil des hommes insolents et je rabaisserai
            l'arrogance des hommes violents.
         Esaïe 37
            29 Oui, tu es furieux contre moi et ton arrogance est montée à
--
            repartir par le chemin que tu as pris à l’aller.
         Jérémie 13
            9 « Voici ce que dit l’Eternel : C'est ainsi que je détruirai
            l'orgueil de Juda et l'orgueil immense de Jérusalem.
            10 Ce méchant peuple refuse d'écouter mes paroles, il
            persévère dans les penchants de son cœur et suit d'autres
            dieux pour les servir et se prosterner devant eux. Il
--
            les fils ensemble, déclare l'Eternel. Je ne les épargnerai
            pas, je n'aurai aucune pitié, aucune compassion, rien ne
            m'empêchera de les détruire.’
            15 » Ecoutez et prêtez l'oreille, ne soyez pas orgueilleux,
            car c’est l’Eternel qui a parlé.
            16 Rendez gloire à l'Eternel, votre Dieu, avant qu'il ne fasse
            venir les ténèbres, avant que vos pieds ne se blessent sur les
--
            l’aura changée en ombre de la mort, il instaurera d’épaisses
            ténèbres.
            17 Si vous n'écoutez pas cela, je pleurerai en secret, à cause
            de votre orgueil. Mes yeux pleureront abondamment, ils
            verseront des larmes, parce que le troupeau de l'Eternel sera
            emmené prisonnier.
         Ezéchiel 7
--
            bâton a fleuri ! L’arrogance s’est épanouie !
            24 Je ferai venir les plus méchantes des nations et elles
            prendront possession de leurs maisons. Je mettrai fin à
            l'orgueil des puissants et leurs sanctuaires seront profanés.
         Ezéchiel 16
            56 Tu ne mentionnais même pas ta sœur Sodome, à l’époque où tu
            étais orgueilleuse,
         Osée 7
            10 L'orgueil d'Israël témoigne contre lui : ils ne reviennent
            pas à l'Eternel, leur Dieu, et ils ne le recherchent pas,
            malgré tout cela.
         Amos 6
            8 Le Seigneur, l'Eternel, l'a juré par lui-même, c’est une
            déclaration de l'Eternel, le Dieu de l’univers : « J'ai en
            horreur l'orgueil de Jacob, et je déteste ses palais. Je
            livrerai la ville et tout ce qu'elle contient. »
         Matthieu 6
            1 » Gardez-vous bien de faire des dons devant les hommes pour</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-31">
<text>   Vidéos
   Contact

     * Définition orgueil
     * Synonyme orgueil

Définition orgueil

   avec synapse
   orgueil est employé comme nom masculin singulier

Employé comme nom</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-32">
<text>
   GaultMillau © 2024 Tous droits réservés

Orgueil

   6 rue Popincourt, 75011 Paris 11
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
--

L'avis de Gault&amp;Millau

   Un peu d'orgueil ? Beaucoup ? Passionnément ? Au cœur du 11e
   arrondissement, cette table s'adresse à tous les grands pécheurs que
   nous sommes. À 28 ans, Eloi Spinnler (un petit air de Pierre Niney)
   joue dans la cour des grands et affiche ses ambitions, tout en suivant</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-33">
<text>   #next RSS Orgueil

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5NFGMPZ

--
     *

   Menu
   Actualités Orgueil
   vendredi 05 janvier 2024, Saint Edouard
   Nuageux
   10° / 16 °
   Orgueil
     * Rechercher
     * Journal
     * Mon compte
--

     * Accueil
     * Tarn-et-Garonne
     * Orgueil

Actualités Orgueil

     * Actualités
     * [flag.png?9320fe1a] Élections
--
   bar restaurant Le Rituel/DDM JpA
   Commerces

Orgueil. Ces commerces qui font revivre le village…

   Commerces. Dans les petits villages un commerce ouvre la vie reprend.
   C’est le cas à Orgueil ou le bar restaurant renaît sous une nouvelle
   enseigne : "Le Rituel". Longtemps attendu par les habitants et les élus
   de la commune, le...

--
   s’illumine.Photo DDM, Jean-Pierre Audard
   Éducation

Orgueil. En calèche, comme autrefois

   Éducation. Pour les élèves, il faut fêter Noël, c’est important à leurs
   yeux. Juste avant de partir en vacances, après le passage du Père Noël
--

   Social

Orgueil. Plus de 150 colis distribués aux retraités

   Social. En cette fin d’année, le centre communal d’action sociale
   (CCAS) de la commune d’Orgueil a procédé à une livraison à domicile des
   colis de Noël. Ces colis sont destinés aux aînés de la commune âgés...
   Dominique Gaspard, vice-présidente du CCAS, a reçu un chaleureux
   accueil de la part de Didier. Photo DDM, W. A.

   Animations

Orgueil. Restez en équilibre pour éviter les chutes

   Animations. Dans le cadre de ses missions d’animation en direction du
   Tarn-et-Garonne, le CBE du Net vient de proposer une journée de
--

   Circulation - Déplacements

Orgueil. Un label d’excellence pour le cœur de ville

   Circulation - Déplacements. Chaque année et à l’échelle nationale,
   l’entreprise Eurovia décerne le label "Excellence environnement" à l’un
--

   Gastronomie et terroir

Orgueil. Un après-midi au pays des gourmets

   Gastronomie et terroir. Ce lundi 20 novembre, dans la salle des fêtes
   espace Jean-Capellini, animé par le chef pâtissier Florian Bray, s’est
--

   Animations

Orgueil. Ateliers pâtisserie pour les seniors

   Animations. Ce lundi 20 novembre à partir de 13 heures dans la salle
   des fêtes Espace Jean Capellini va se dérouler un atelier pâtisserie
--

   Commémorations - Hommages

Orgueil. Les enfants associés à la cérémonie

   Commémorations - Hommages. Ce 105e anniversaire de l’Armistice s’est
   déroulé dans la cour de l’école d’Orgueil aménagée pour l’occasion.
   C’est à 11 h 30 que débute la cérémonie. Willy Autheresse, maire de la
   commune, tient à...
   Un dépôt de gerbe intergénérationnel.Photo DDM, J.-P. Audard

   Circulation - Déplacements

Orgueil. La commune toujours en travaux

   Circulation - Déplacements. Force est de constater que les travaux sont
   partout dans la commune d’Orgueil. En effet, depuis quelques jours, le
   chemin de Pautal, situé entre la route de Planquès et la route de la
   Thomaze, est...
   Le chemin de Pautal en travaux pour la réalisation d’un pont neuf.Photo
--

   Animations

Orgueil. Fête de la citrouille et petits monstres au rendez-vous

   Animations. Trois associations orgueilloises se sont jointes pour
   organiser une fête de la citrouille et des petits monstres : la Ruche,
   l’Association de parents d’élèves (APE) et le Rythmique Orgueil-Club...
   Organisateurs et enfants prêts à accueillir les participants !

   Animations

Orgueil. Initiation au traitement des photos numériques avec le CBE du Net
Tarn

   Animations. Le CBE du Net intervient régulièrement à Orgueil. En
   partenariat avec la commune cette semaine va débuter un atelier
   numérique du traitement des photos. Cela, en direction des seniors
   ayant plus de...
--

   Spectacles

Orgueil. Repas-concert caritatif demain soir

   Spectacles. Dans le cadre de ses activités, l’association La Ruche
   d’Orgueil’organise la 4e édition du repas-concert caritatif à Orgueil,
   demain samedi 7 octobre ! Cela se déroulera dans la salle des fêtes...
   Deuxième partie de la soirée avec le trio À 3 Francs.

   Éducation

Orgueil. Prendre confiance grâce au service civique

   Éducation. Sara Urbita et Ilona Pisant, résidentes du village
   d’Orgueil, sont, pour les huit mois à venir, les deux nouveaux services
   civiques de la commune. Elles sont rattachées à l’école maternelle
   et...
   Mélanie et Stéphane encadreront Ilona et Sara durant leur service
--

   Environnement

Orgueil. Une communication réussie, dimanche, sur les travaux "Cœur de ville"

   Environnement. Les habitants de la commune d’Orgueil sont venus
   nombreux pour participer à la réunion d’information du projet "Cœur de
   ville". Après un rapide exposé concernant le projet et l’avancement
   des...
--

   Éducation

Orgueil. Les agents du périscolaire à pied d’œuvre

   Éducation. Pour cette semaine de prérentrée Willy Authesserre, maire de
   la commune, Alexandra Pinaud-Verdier, adjointe en charge de l’enfance
   et la jeunesse et Virginie Prouteau, conseillère municipale membre...
   Orgueil : Une rentrée scolaire bien peaufinée.Photo DDM. J.-P. A. udard
   Météo
   Orgueil
   Nuageux
   Aujourd'hui
   10° / 16 °
--

   Éducation

Orgueil. Nadine Lauzeral mérite bien sa retraite

   Éducation. La rentrée scolaire se profile à l’horizon ; cette année,
   elle se fera sans Nadine Lauzeral (Atsem) à l’école d’Orgueil depuis
   plus de vingt-cinq ans qui a choisi de prendre une retraite bien...
   Le maire Willy Authesserre félicite Nadine Lauzeral pour son travail
   irréprochable.
--
Flashé à 214 km/h sur une route départementale, le motard a dû laisser sa
Triumph de 180 chevaux à la fourrière

   Sécurité routière. C’est sur une portion de la D 3 à Orgueil au sud du
   Tarn-et-Garonne que les gendarmes de l’EDSR (escadron départemental de
   la sécurité routière) ont intercepté ce motard ce 18 juillet en
   soirée.
--

   Animations

Orgueil. Une auberge espagnole pour amorcer les vacances

   Animations. C’est à compter de 19 heures vendredi 7 juillet, sur le
   parking de la salle des fêtes d’Orgueil, espace Jean-Capellini, que se
   déroulera une auberge espagnole pour fêter l’arrivée des vacances.
   Des...
   Pour fêter les vacances, comme en 2022, beaucoup de monde est
--

   Animations

Orgueil. Fête des associations ce dimanche

   Animations. Fort du succès réalisé l’année précédente, la fête des
   associations est reconduite cette année dimanche 25 juin à compter de
--

   Vide-greniers et brocantes

Orgueil. Vide ta chambre : succès des objets de seconde main

   Vide-greniers et brocantes. Dans leur volonté d’aller de l’avant et
   d’animer, la FCPE a organisé un vide ta chambre. Celui-ci s’est déroulé
--

   Animations

Orgueil. Les sorties culturelles du CBE du Net-Tarn 2023 reprennent

   Animations. La prochaine sortie est programmée le 22 juin, et ce sera
   la visite du musée des chemins de fer touristiques du Tarn à
   Saint-Lieux-Lès-Lavaur.Après avoir animé des ateliers culinaires
   l’action se...
   Le siècle dernier "le petit train" s’arrêtait en gare d’Orgueil. Photo
   DDM

   Animations

Orgueil. CBE du Net : une initiation paris-brest pour les gourmets

   Animations. Le CBE du Net intervient régulièrement, à Orgueil. Divers
   ateliers en direction des seniors se déroulent sur la commune. Et, bien
   entendu, il y a des ateliers culinaires. Après avoir appris à...
   Et maintenant, c’est parti pour la dégustation !Photo DDM, J.-P. A.

   Environnement

Orgueil. Avancement des travaux du village : une vue sur la transformation

   Environnement. Les travaux d’aménagement de la voirie et de la mairie
   continuent leurs cours et transforment le visuel du centre du village.
--

   Animations

Orgueil. Initiation information avec le CBE du Net Tarn

   Animations. Le CBE du Net intervient régulièrement à Orgueil. Et
   actuellement, à la mairie, se déroule un atelier formation aux outils
   informatiques en direction des seniors de la commune. Cet atelier
   est...
--

   Circulation - Déplacements

Orgueil. Travaux : circulation perturbée dans le village

   Circulation - Déplacements. Les travaux d’aménagement du cœur de ville
   battent leur plein. La requalification des espaces publics commence à
--
   Quoi de mieux de faire un essai pour s’initier au tir à l’arc.
   Tir à l'arc

Orgueil. Belle première édition d’Assoc’actions

   4L Trophy

--

   Pétanque

Orgueil. De nouvelles tenues pour le club de pétanque

   Football - Amateurs

Orgueil. Les équipements sportifs sont à l’honneur

   Sorties

   C’est parti pour le concert avec Sexy Family.Photo DDM
   Social

Orgueil. Sous le signe de la fête avec les Francas

   Animations

Orgueil. Un moment convivial offert par la municipalité

   Animations

Orgueil. Balade en calèche avant Noël pour les écoliers

   Animations

Orgueil. Le chef pâtissier Florian Bray anime un atelier seniors avec le CBE
du Net-Tarn

   Autour de Orgueil

   Il faut compter 10 à 15 minutes pour rallier le festival depuis le
   parking des Albarèdes en naviguant sur le Tarn.
--
       d'un arrêt cardiaque

   1 2 3 4
   Maire actuel de Orgueil
   [lazy_medium.jpg?19b84e14]

Willy AUTHESSERRE
--

   Contacts :
   Tel: 0563305150
   Email: mairie@orgueil.fr
   Web: http://www.orgueil.fr

   Inter Communalité : CC Grand Sud Tarn et Garonne

--
     * Trafic

   [lazy_medium.jpg?19b84e14]
   Voir plus de contenus: Actualités Orgueil

   Lancez votre recherche
   ____________________</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-34">
<text>
   Retour à la carte

Orgueil - 82370

   La commune est heureuse de mettre à disposition de ses habitants
   l’application PanneauPocket. Par cet outil très simple, elle souhaite
--
   sans publicité, permet d’établir un véritable lien privilégié entre le
   maire et ses citoyens.

   281 Rue Grand Rue 82370 Orgueil

   05 63 30 51 50 mairie@orgueil.fr
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--
   C'est IRRESPONSABLE et DANGEREUX

   Chaque jour les agents municipaux referment pour éviter des accidents
   et assurer la sécurité de tous, des orgueillois comme des
   automobilistes de passage

   Restez patients,
--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--

   Willy AUTHESSERRE,

   Maire d'ORGUEIL,

   et

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--

   - - - - - - -

   Willy Authesserre, Maire d'Orgueil, les élus du Conseil municipal et
   les agents communaux vous présentent leurs Meilleurs Vœux pour 2024 !

   Ensemble bâtissons l'avenir !
--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--

   de 14h à 17h

   au city-stade d'Orgueil

   Camille abordera avec les collégiens leurs envies, besoins et avis sur
   la commune
--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--

   ﻿🍲﻿﻿☕﻿﻿🍻﻿

   Le café restaurant d'Orgueil

   Le RITUEL

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

   Info modifiée le 12/12/2023
   NOUVEAU - COUTURIÈRE à ORGUEIL

   - - - - - - -

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--

   - - - - - - -

   Nouveau sur Orgueil

   ﻿🍔﻿﻿🍔﻿﻿🍔﻿

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--

   - les parents des enfants nés en 2021

   - les parents souhaitant scolariser leurs enfants à Orgueil à la
   rentrée 2024

   sont invités à se rapprocher de la mairie :

   mairie@orgueil.fr

   05 63 30 51 50

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--

   GRAND SUD TARN ET GARONNE

   sont proposées à Orgueil

   à la salle des fêtes de l'espace J. Capellini

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--

   - - - - - - -

   Mairie Orgueil

   ﻿05 63 30 51 50

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--
   Copier le lien
   [321503325-1601460864.png]

   Orgueil

   82370

--

   - - - - - - -

   📬 Adresse de la mairie de Orgueil :

   281 Rue Grand Rue

   82370 Orgueil


   Contacter la mairie de Orgueil :

   ☎ Téléphone : 05 63 30 51 50

   📩 E-mail : mairie@orgueil.fr

   23 sur 23
   (BUTTON) Partager
   Partager Sur Twitter Partager Sur Facebook Partager Par e-mail (BUTTON)
   Copier le lien

Consultez l'actualité des autres communes autour de Orgueil

     * Reyniès - 82370
     * Nohic - 82370</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-35">
<text>   #publisher Je change de cap » Flux Je change de cap » Flux des
   commentaires Je change de cap » Fierté ou orgueil ? Flux des
   commentaires alternate alternate

   [tr?id=487822394922863&amp;ev=PageView&amp;noscript=1]
--

   Mai152018

Fierté ou orgueil ?

   Pourquoi se retenir autant ?!!

   Nous nous empêchons très souvent d’être fiers par peur d’être
   orgueilleux ? En effet, nous ne faisons pas assez la différence
   entre la différence entre la fierté et l’orgueil. Un bon moyen pour
   faire la différence est de se souvenir que la fierté est vécue face à
   soi-même tandis que l’orgueil est vécu face à une ou plusieurs autres
   personnes.

   La fierté nous touche en profondeur, elle rehausse notre estime de soi
--
   elle nous porte à vouloir cacher ce que nous faisons, pensons ou
   ressentons.

   L’orgueil, c’est l’opinion avantageuse, le plus souvent exagérée, qu’on
   a de sa valeur personnelle, mais aux dépens de la considération
   d’autrui. Être orgueilleux, c’est vouloir prouver aux autres que nous
   sommes ou faisons mieux que les autres ou que nos connaissances sont
   plus valables que celles des autres.

   Dans la fierté, il y a de l’amour pour soi. Dans l’orgueil se cache
   la peur, en général inconsciente, de ne pas être aimé.

   Prenons l’exemple de celui qui obtient un poste de travail qu’il
--
   pour elle et la félicitent spontanément. Ils reconnaissent la valeur de
   la personne qui parle.

   Par contre, si cette dernière a un discours orgueilleux, elle rabaisse
   les autres, elle fera tout pour recevoir des compliments et sera très
   déçue de ne pas en recevoir. Elle sera donc portée à en rajouter, par
   exemple : Tu vois, si tu faisais comme moi, toi aussi tu pourrais
--
   côté… C’est justement l’intérêt de l’exercice. Si, en exprimant votre
   fierté, vos interlocuteurs se justifient de ne pas être à votre hauteur
   ou se crispe de jalousie… c’est que votre fierté est certainement
   orgueilleuse… Prendre conscience de cette réalité donne toute les clés
   pour se réajuster et exister sans le besoin de se vanter.

   De plus, vous découvrirez que même si vous ne parlez pas des choses</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-36">
<text>   Connexion
   [B.jpg]

orgueil

Livres classés orgueil (146)

   12 suivant
   Akade, tome 3 : La reine du lycée par Blasco
--

5.00★ (11)

   La sagesse des mythes : Tantale et autres mythes de l'orgueil par
   Bruneau

La sagesse des mythes : Tantale et autres mythes de l'orgueil

Clotilde Bruneau

--

5.00★ (4)

   Pandora Box, tome 1 : L'orgueil par Alcante

Pandora Box, tome 1 : L'orgueil

Alcante

--

3.88★ (25)

   Éléonore, tome 1 : Le quartier de l'orgueil par Lakhdari King

Éléonore, tome 1 : Le quartier de l'orgueil

Nadia Lakhdari King

--

5.00★ (3)

   Les sept péchés capitaux : Orgueil par Lapaque

Les sept péchés capitaux : Orgueil

Sébastien Lapaque

--

1.00★ (1)

   Orgueil et préjugés par Austen

Orgueil et préjugés

Jane Austen

--
   10 questions
   34 lecteurs ont répondu
   Thèmes : Danseuses , Danseurs , danse , chorégraphe , chorégraphie ,
   ballet , Danse contemporaine , Danse classique , passion , orgueil ,
   volontéCréer un quiz sur cette thématique
   Découvrez des thématiques proches</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-37">
<text>   Rechercher : [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)__
   __________________________________________________ Valider

orgueil     définition   Logo du CNRTL   espace sémantique Graphe sémantique

   38 synonymes
   ambition, amour-propre, arrogance, bouffissure, complaisance, crête,
--
     __________________________________________________________________

   40 cliques
     * fatuité, fierté, gloriole, infatuation, orgueil, outrecuidance,
       présomption, prétention, suffisance, superbe, vanité
     * amour-propre, fatuité, fierté, infatuation, orgueil, présomption,
       prétention, superbe, vanité
     * arrogance, fatuité, fierté, orgueil, outrecuidance, présomption,
       prétention, suffisance, superbe
     * arrogance, dédain, fierté, hauteur, morgue, orgueil, roguerie,
       superbe
     * arrogance, dédain, fierté, hauteur, orgueil, roguerie, supériorité,
       superbe
     * arrogance, dédain, hauteur, insolence, morgue, orgueil, roguerie,
       superbe
     * arrogance, fierté, hauteur, morgue, orgueil, outrecuidance,
       roguerie, superbe
     * arrogance, fierté, hauteur, orgueil, outrecuidance, roguerie,
       supériorité, superbe
     * arrogance, fierté, morgue, orgueil, outrecuidance, roguerie,
       suffisance, superbe
     * arrogance, fierté, orgueil, outrecuidance, roguerie, suffisance,
       supériorité, superbe
     * arrogance, hauteur, insolence, morgue, orgueil, outrecuidance,
       roguerie, superbe
     * arrogance, insolence, morgue, orgueil, outrecuidance, roguerie,
       suffisance, superbe
     * arrogance, fatuité, importance, orgueil, outrecuidance, suffisance,
       superbe
     * fatuité, importance, orgueil, outrecuidance, suffisance, superbe,
       vanité
     * fatuité, infatuation, orgueil, prétention, sottise, suffisance,
       vanité
     * fierté, morgue, orgueil, outrecuidance, suffisance, superbe, vanité
     * infatuation, jactance, orgueil, outrecuidance, suffisance, superbe,
       vanité
     * arrogance, fatuité, orgueil, prétention, sottise, suffisance
     * gloriole, orgueil, ostentation, outrecuidance, superbe, vanité
     * importance, orgueil, ostentation, outrecuidance, superbe, vanité
     * jactance, orgueil, ostentation, outrecuidance, superbe, vanité
     * ambition, amour-propre, orgueil, présomption, prétention
     * estime, fierté, gloire, honneur, orgueil
     * amour-propre, fierté, gloire, orgueil
     * arrogance, dédain, orgueil, sottise
     * bouffissure, orgueil, prétention, vanité
     * estime, fierté, orgueil, superbe
     * fleuron, gloire, orgueil, ornement
     * gloire, honneur, orgueil, ornement
     * orgueil, pose, prétention, sottise
     * orgueil, pose, prétention, superbe
     * ambition, mégalomanie, orgueil
     * complaisance, orgueil, vanité
     * crête, hauteur, orgueil
     * fumée, orgueil, vanité
     * immodestie, orgueil, prétention
     * mégalomanie, orgueil, superbe
     * démesure, orgueil
     * orgueil, péché
     * orgueil, raideur

   • * Avant toute consultation, merci de lire cet avertissement
   • • Présentation du DES</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-38">
<text>    La carte pour la ville de Orgueil 82370
   [chevron.4e873f4cc41ef70399ab.svg]
   ____________________
   real-time
   itinerary Itinéraires

Orgueil82370

   coeur Enregistrer
   ﻿Orgueil est un village français situé dans le département de
   Tarn-et-Garonne et la région région Occitanie (anciennement région
   Midi-Pyrénées). Ses habitants sont appelés les Orgueillois et les
   Orgueilloises. La commune compte 1 616 habitants depuis le dernier
   recensement de la population datant de 2014. Orgueil est situé à 13 km
   au Sud-Est de Montauban, la plus grande ville aux alentours. Elle
   abrite l'église néo-gothique Saint-Ferréol, possédant un clocher de 32
   mètres de haut. La rivière du Tarn est le principal cours d'eau qui
--

     Carte Tarn-et-Garonne

     Plan Orgueil suggestion Top Recherches down

Top recherche des internautes

--
     * Distance Montpellier Saint-Nauphary
     * Rayon autour de moi

Itinéraires Orgueil

     * Itinéraires avec Mappy

--
     * Plan Soveria
     * Plan Beauchamp

Lieux à découvrir à Orgueil

     * Commerçants de Orgueil
     * Di Grégorio Patrice
     * Sonia Ferreira - Solehia
     * TD Menuisier
--
     * Clim Confort
     * C2g
     * Gay Henri
     * Mairie - Orgueil
     * Elevage de la Planque
     * Admr
     * Loc-citanie
--
     * Biserica Ortodoxă
     * Cimitirul din Bălani
     * Église
     * Cimetière d'Orgueil
     * Primăria Stănești
     * Biserica Ortodoxă
     * Cimitirul din Alexeni
--
     * Școala Generală Curpen
     * Școala Generală Stănești

Les lieux populaires à Orgueil

     * Pensiunea Cristina
     * Pensiunea Maria</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-39">
<text>   EAN : 9782848684796
   Télécharger la couverture

Une question d'orgueil

Pierre Assouline (Auteur)

--

   (BUTTON) ×

   Le produit "Une question d'orgueil" est actuellement epuisé.
   Si vous souhaitez être prévenu de sa disponibilité ultérieure, veuillez
   indiquer votre courriel et valider. 130475
   E-mail ____________________</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-4">
<text>
Entrez une forme

   orgueil_________________________________________ Chercher
   options d'affichage                              catégorie : [toutes______]
     * ORGUEIL, subst. masc.

   ORGUEIL, subst. masc.
   I.
   A. − Présomption, estime exagérée, amour excessif de soi-même, qui fait
   que l'on est persuadé de sa propre excellence, que l'on se juge
   supérieur aux autres. Les philosophes qui, pour l'orgueil et la
   sécheresse continuèrent les théologiens, décidèrent qu'il n'avait pas
   d'âme (Michelet,Peuple,1846, p.238).Disraëli (...) forme le projet
   (...) de devenir le plus grand homme qui ait jamais existé (...). On
   connaît l'orgueil fou d'un Byron, la mégalomanie d'un Hitler, d'un
   Goebbels, d'un Mussolini, greffée sur une jeunesse humiliée
   (Mounier,Traité caract.,1946, p.598):
   1. Un adage sacré dit que l'orgueil est le commencement de tous nos
   crimes; (...) et de toutes nos erreurs. C'est lui qui nous égare en
   nous inspirant un malheureux esprit de contention qui nous fait
   chercher des difficultés pour avoir le plaisir de contester, au lieu de
   les soumettre au principe prouvé... J. de Maistre,Soirées
   St-Pétersb.,t.1, 1821, p.304.
   − Subst. + d'orgueil.Homme d'orgueil. Homme qui est rempli d'orgueil.
   Le ciel de turquoise morte surveille la ruine des hommes d'orgueil qui
   voulurent en tenter l'escalade (Cocteau,Maalesh,1949, p.117).Politique
   d'orgueil. Politique qui est remplie d'orgueil. Ainsi, des deux côtés
   [France-Allemagne] la politique d'orgueil (...) de taquinerie et
   d'arrogance semble reprendre (Jaurès,Eur. incert.,1914, p.27).
   SYNT. Orgueil démesuré, immense, indomptable, ombrageux; insolent,
   stupide, vif orgueil; abattre, blesser, briser, flatter, humilier,
   mortifier, offenser, vaincre l'orgueil de qqn; avoir un orgueil de fer;
   être bouffi, ivre, perdu d'orgueil; se gonfler, se piquer d'orgueil;
   tomber du haut de son orgueil.
   − En partic. [Cette estime considérée chez une pers. qui se glorifie
   avec excès d'avantages qui lui viennent de ses origines, de son rang
   social, etc.] Suffisance, morgue, superbe. L'orgueil des princes. Ces
   nobles, se dit la soubrette, ont l'air d'être sortis de la propre
   cuisse de Jupiter; au moindre mot, leur orgueil se dresse sur les
   ergots, et ils ne peuvent, comme les vilains, digérer l'insulte
   (Gautier,Fracasse,1863, p.222).
   − Spécialement
   1. PSYCHANAL. ,,Hypertrophie du Moi et surestimation personnelle``
   (Pel. Psych. 1976). L'orgueil (...) est un des éléments de la
   constitution paranoïaque et il fait le lit de la méfiance, de
   l'interprétation et des idées de persécution (Lafon1963).
   2. MOR., RELIG. Défaut, esprit, vice d'orgueil; infernal, maudit, noir
   orgueil. Orgueil et humilité s'opposent donc comme le non et le oui,
   −celui-là qui est l'esprit de refus, la mortelle satisfaction d'une âme
   endurcie, blindée, cuirassée de contentement et entièrement insensible
   aux valeurs (Jankélévitch,Les Vertus et l'Amour,1970, p.661):
   2. Le problème métaphysique de l'orgueil, de l'hybris, que les Grecs
   ont aperçu (...) a été un des thèmes essentiels de la théologie
   chrétienne (...). L'orgueil consiste à ne trouver sa force qu'en soi,
   il retranche celui qui l'éprouve d'une certaine communion des êtres, du
   même coup il tend à la briser, il joue comme un principe de
   destruction. G. Marcel,Position et approches concrètes du mystère
   ontologique,1967, p.74.
   ♦ [P. réf. à la Bible, Prov. 16-18] Orgueil de Lucifer, de Satan. Isaïe
   compare le roi de Babylone à Lucifer, qui est tombé du ciel sur terre à
   cause de son orgueil (Théol. cath.t.4, 11920, p.361).
   ♦ Péché d'orgueil. Le premier des sept péchés capitaux. Les péchés
   capitaux, a-t-il dit: il n'en a qu'un, lui, mais le père de tous les
   autres, l'orgueil! Par orgueil, il criera pour vous; par orgueil il
   vous trahira (Dumas père, Darlington,1832, i, 5, p.63).Ma fille, mon
   enfant, gardons-nous du péché d'orgueil. Nous sommes faits comme les
   autres. Nous sommes des chrétiens comme les autres. Nous eussions été
   comme eux (Péguy,Myst. charité,1910, p.129).
   B. − Fierté, sentiment noble inspiré par une juste confiance, l'estime
   légitime de soi ou des autres. Orgueil maternel, national; noble,
   respectable orgueil; donner de l'orgueil à qqn. L'ame accroît sa force
   par l'orgueil même de sa force; dès qu'elle s'estime, elle peut tout
   (Senancour,Rêveries,1799, p.81).Je condamne ta vanité, mais non pas ton
   orgueil, car si tu danses mieux qu'une autre, pourquoi te
   dénigrerais-tu en t'humiliant devant qui danse mal? Il est une forme
   d'orgueil qui est amour de la danse bien dansée
   (Saint-Exup.,Citad.,1943, p.864):
   3. Christophe oubliait donc tous ses griefs contre son père, et il
   s'évertuait à trouver des raisons de l'admirer (...) il rayonnait
   d'orgueil, quand il entendait admirer son talent de virtuose, ou quand
   Melchior racontait, en les amplifiant, les éloges qu'il avait reçus.
   Rolland,J.-Chr.,Aube, 1904, p.43.
   ♦ Avec orgueil. Avec fierté. Contempler, regarder qqn/qqc. avec
   orgueil. Souvent il se disoit avec orgueil: «C'est mon gendre!...»
   (Balzac,Annette,t.2, 1824, p.140).Le commandant Desbarres (...)
   montrait avec orgueil (...) la croix d'honneur donnée par l'empereur
   lui-même (...) pendant la retraite de Russie (Maupass.,Contes et
   nouv.,t.2, Rosier M^meHusson, 1887, p.690).
   ♦ (Avoir son) petit orgueil (fam.). (Éprouver une) satisfaction
   d'amour-propre. Corbie ouvrit les armoires, en tira des verres et une
   bouteille d'eau-de-vie, faisant le service avec le petit orgueil d'un
   homme qui montre qu'il est de la maison (Duranty,Malh. H. Gérard,1860,
   p.129).
   ♦ Mettre un certain, tout son orgueil à faire qqc. Mettre (...) son
   amour-propre à... Gavarni nous parle (...) de ce temps où éditeurs,
   graveurs, artistes mettaient un certain orgueil à faire quelque chose
   de propre (Goncourt,Journal,1857, p.364).Il y avait surtout le fils
   d'un entrepreneur forain (...) qui mettait son orgueil à rester dernier
   de la classe (Gide,Si le grain,1924, p.424).
   ♦ Subst. + d'orgueil.Sentiment d'orgueil. Il venait d'obtenir pour lui
   le ruban de la légion d'honneur. Félicité pleura. Son mari décoré! Son
   rêve d'orgueil n'était jamais allé jusque là (Zola,Fortune Rougon,1871,
   p.295):
   4. Les petits plaisirs d'orgueil qu'il récoltait quotidiennement,
   l'empressement qu'il rencontrait aux cérémonies mineures où il
   représentait son ministre, la considération des officiers généraux, la
   poignée de main des sénateurs ventrus, faisaient à Simon cette
   apparence satisfaite. Druon,Gdes fam.,t.1, 1948, p.181.
   − P. anal. [Le compl. de nom désigne un arbre, un édifice] Aspect
   imposant, majesté de quelque chose. L'orgueil des palais. L'Escurial
   étend son orgueil de granit (Verlaine,Poèmes saturn.,1866, p.89).La
   maison était entourée de vieux sycomores laissés libres de tout temps.
   Ils étaient d'une santé et d'un orgueil magnifiques. Les troncs
   bosselés de muscles roux s'élançaient vers le ciel avec tant de
   puissance qu'ils soulevaient la terre dans leurs racines (Giono,Que ma
   joie demeure,1935, p.252).
   II. − (Être l')orgueil de qqn/de qqc.(Être pour quelqu'un/quelque chose
   une) satisfaction d'amour-propre, (un) sujet de fierté, légitime ou
   non. Être l'orgueil d'une personne, d'un pays, d'un groupe; son fils,
   l'orgueil de la famille. N'avez-vous pas (...) un fils que tout le
   monde nous envierait, un fils qui est notre orgueil, notre gloire,
   notre avenir? (Scribe,Bertrand,1833, ii, 2, p.150).Général Koenig!
   Sachez et dites à vos troupes que toute la France vous regarde et que
   vous êtes son orgueil (De Gaulle,Mém. guerre,1954, p.671).
   III. − TECHNOL. ,,Grosse cale de pierre ou de bois servant de point
   d'appui à un levier`` (Barb.-Cad. 1963).
   REM.
   Orgueillite, subst. fém.,rare. Accès, crise d'orgueil. Souffrir, être
   atteint d'une orgueillite aiguë. Encore une crise d'orgueillite, chez
   les Charles Gide, tantôt. Une bouffée de vantardise (à propos de mes
   représentations en Allemagne) (Gide,Journal,1907, p.239).
   Prononc. et Orth.: [ɔ ʀgoej]. Att. ds Ac. dep. 1694. Étymol. et Hist.</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-40">
<text>   #Le Dico Elix

   accès au menuaccès au contenu (BUTTON) menu Le Dico Elix
   orgueil_____________ (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) Valider la recherche

   Découvrir ElixFaire un donBoutique
--

     * Accueil
     * Dictionnaire
     * orgueil

3 résultats pour « orgueil » dont 1 terme exact et 2 suggestions

orgueil (n.m.)

   (BUTTON) Signe (BUTTON) Définition LSF
     * Signaler un problème
--

Suggestions

     * orgueilleusement
     * orgueilleux

Lettre d'information</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-41">
<text>     * Style
     * Gastronomie

            Le goût de Paris – Pourquoi vous allez adorer Orgueil

   Voici un néobistrot de plus dans le 11^e arrondissement, « Orgueil »,
   tenu par un chef de 27 ans. Le défi à relever était audacieux, c’est au
   final un grand oui.

   Par Julien Rebucci
   Publié le 15/06/2022 à 12h45

   [2479696.png] Les plats d'Orgueil Les plats d'Orgueil © Orgueil

   Temps de lecture : 3 min
     * Ajouter à mes favoris
--
          + Instagram
          + Copier le lien

   Le Larousse est formel. L'orgueil est le sentiment exagéré de sa propre
   valeur. Alors, quand Eloi Spinnler choisit de baptiser ce restaurant
   (avec ses associés Youssef Chraibi et Martin Pellet) de ce
   qualificatif, on se dit en effet que le jeune chef de 27 ans frise
--
   D'autant plus que cette toque formée à l'école Ferrandi, aiguisée à la
   Tour d'Argent et au Plaza, a choisi la rue Popincourt en plein 11^e
   arrondissement, temple parisien de la food par excellence. À lui
   l'orgueil, à nous les préjugés.

   Voir cette publication sur Instagram

   Une publication partagée par Orgueil    (@orgueil.paris)

Magnifique asperge blanche

--
   sésame à tremper dans sa cream cheese (11 euros), si régressives qu'on
   hésite à les commander en double.

   Deux déceptions sont tout de même au menu. L'orgueil un peu trop
   prononcé du chef sur cette raviole de homard, pois mangetout,
   citronnelle, décevante en bouche (on y croyait pourtant beaucoup).
   Notre propre orgueil enfin, de ne pas s'être laissé tenter par la
   dernière touche végétale proposée à la carte qui prend la forme d'un
   jeu de tarot : le brocoli, soja, pamplemousse (9 euros).

   Les ravioles © Orgueil

Mystérieuse table dans le fond

--
   dans le vacarme ?) et une surprise derrière le miroir sans tain du fond
   de la salle. Dix couverts à l'abri des regards, face à la grande
   cuisine ouverte, qui remet le speakeasy au goût du jour à Paris après
   une overdose du concept, il y a quatre ou cinq ans déjà. « Orgueil est
   le premier restaurant d'un groupe autour des sept péchés capitaux,
   c'est aussi le péché des cuisiniers, la plupart des chefs ayant un bel
   ego, détaille le chef Spinnler. Chez Orgueil, nos fiertés au contraire,
   ce sont nos employés, nos fournisseurs et leurs produits ainsi que la
   vision et le projet que nous voulons partager. » Une table de légitime
   fierté, une table d'orgueil.

   Orgueil. 6, rue Popincourt (11^e). 01 83 97 34 80. Tous les jours,
   seulement au dîner.

   Consultez notre dossier : Envies de Paris</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-42">
<text>    #alternate alternate

   L’orgueil
   Retour page d'accueil

   IGP Rouge 2020

L’orgueil

   Avec ce vin, vos chevilles risquent d'enfler ...</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-43">
<text>   Les e-liquides
   >gt;
   7 Péchés Capitaux
   >gt;Orgueil 50ml
   e-liquide avec nicotine offerte Bordeaux

E-LIQUIDE PECHES CAPITAUX
Orgueil 50ml - 17,52 €

   Le e-liquide 50ml Orgueil de la gamme LES 7 PECHES CAPITAUX par le
   Laboratoire Sense et un e-liquide gout menthe réglisse. Disponible en
   livraison gratuite ou dans nos magasins de Bordeaux.."
   PECHES CAPITAUX
   Orgueil 50ml eliquide sense
     * Orgueil 50ml eliquide sense
     * Orgueil 50ml eliquide sense
     * Orgueil 50ml eliquide sense
     * Avarice 50ml

   -20%
--

   17,52 €
   https://genericlop.fr/eliquide-sept-peches-capitaux/2752-eliquide-50ml-
   orgueil-sense.html
   En stock

   CHOISIR VOS OPTIONS
--
   10% Offert
   sur un prochain achat.
   https://genericlop.fr/eliquide-sept-peches-capitaux/2752-eliquide-50ml-
   orgueil-sense.html
   Orgueil 50ml PECHES CAPITAUX

   E-liquide 50ml L'Orgueil de la gamme LES 7 PECHES CAPITAUX par le
   Laboratoire Sense. Le e-liquide Orgueil 50ml est dans un flacon 75ml.
   Sans arôme artificiel, sans sucralose, sans colorant ni alcool et
   normes AFNOR
   NOTES DE TÊTE: Menthe.
--
   Basée sur
   4 AVIS

Orgueil 50ml Produits Associés

     * Tabac US GENERICLOP

--

     * En savoir plus

     Avis Orgueil 50ml (4)

Orgueil 50ml PECHES CAPITAUX

   e-liquide français 7 peches capitaux à BORDEAUX
   SAVEUR: Menthe | NOTES: Réglisse | ORIGINE: France | PG/VG: 50/50

   L’Orgueil entre dans la brasserie. Il admire son reflet dans les
   miroirs qui ornent la pièce. Il s’installe au comptoir et claque des
   doigts pour appeler la jeune serveuse. L’Orgueil veut prouver qu’il est
   un homme et lui ordonne de verser dans son verre, la divine absinthe,
   l’aphrodisiaque de l’âme. Les notes anisées et mentholées le
   transportent. Ivre d’orgueil, il titube et s’écroule sur les pieds de
   la fée verte.

Les e-liquides SENSE ont étés créés comme un parfum
--

   E-liquide phodé sense

caractéristique Orgueil 50ml PECHES CAPITAUX

     * Produit Certifié:
       LES 7 PECHES CAPITAUX
--

   Voir tous les produits de la marque PECHES CAPITAUX

Mode d'emploi Orgueil 50ml PECHES CAPITAUX:

Préparation si vous souhaitez ajouter de la nicotine

--

   Nous vous proposons ce flacon de mélange "Chubby 75ml" pour mettre
   jusqu'à deux boosters et demi.
   Mise en garde Orgueil 50ml PECHES CAPITAUX e-liquide pour cigarette
   électronique :
   eliquide avec nicotine

Voir les Avis Orgueil 50ml PECHES CAPITAUX

   IFRAME:
   //cl.avis-verifies.com/fr/cache/0/c/2/0c29c7c0-e949-56a4-7d5f-1422bd45d
   d76/widget4/0c29c7c0-e949-56a4-7d5f-1422bd45dd76horizontal_index.html

   Alain H. Avis sur Orgueil 50ml PECHES CAPITAUX

   " RAS vendeur pro "
   valerie w. Avis sur Orgueil 50ml PECHES CAPITAUX

   " Franchement très déçue de ce produit. On ne sent pas du tout la
   réglisse la menthe domine mais le goût final est très fade et ne donne
   aucun plaisir à vapoter. "
   Alain H. Avis sur Orgueil 50ml PECHES CAPITAUX

   " RAS vendeur pro "
   valerie w. Avis sur Orgueil 50ml PECHES CAPITAUX

   " Franchement très déçue de ce produit. On ne sent pas du tout la
   réglisse la menthe domine mais le goût final est très fade et ne donne
   aucun plaisir à vapoter. "
   Donner votre avis sur: Orgueil 50ml PECHES CAPITAUX
   x

     * Note:
       ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) (*)

   Orgueil 50ml - B-5Z- PRÉNOM: ^*
   IDENTIFIEZ-VOUS POUR GAGNEZ DES BONS DE RÉDUCTIONS, FAITES ÉVOLUER
   VOTRE BADGE ET VOTRE CLASSEMENT ____________________ AVIS: ^*
   ____________________________________________________________</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-44">
<text>
     * Culture

L’orgueil

   Le Monde

--

   Et le septième jour, profitant d’un repos bien mérité, Dieu alluma la
   télé. Au fil des heures et des programmes diffusés, il put constater
   que l’orgueil, premier des sept pêchés capitaux – qui avait coûté cher
   à Adam et Eve –, cet appétit désordonné de sa propre excellence, cette
   « admiration de soi fondée sur l’admiration qu’on croit inspirer aux
   autres » comme le définissait Bergson, était particulièrement développé
   chez celles et ceux qui officiaient à l'écran. Grâce à sa télécommande
   divine qui faisait défiler les années à grande vitesse, Dieu constata
   que, de Léon Zitrone à Thierry Ardisson, la télé française était bien
   le royaume des orgueilleux.

    Animateurs, commentateurs, présentateurs, pseudo-experts et même héros
   de séries, rares étaient ceux à l’abri du pêché d’orgueil. Moi, moi et
   rien que moi ? Je suis au centre, je le mérite, et tout tourne autour
   de moi ? « A la télé, l’orgueil est une passion naturelle, inévitable
   pour celle ou celui qui est sous l’œil de la caméra. Inévitable car
   passer à la télé, c’est vivre dans un miroir », résume Raphaël
   Enthoven, philosophe, chroniqueur sur France Culture et animateur
   depuis six ans de l’émission « Philosophie » diffusée tous les
   dimanches sur Arte. « Le fait d’être au centre, face caméra, fait muter
   l’amour propre en orgueil. Passer à la télé est une drogue délicieuse
   qui, au fil du temps, devient addiction hors de laquelle la vie paraît
   fade. La télé est un filtre flatteur pour celui qui a une très haute
   idée de lui-même. Et un territoire idéal puisqu’on y vit sous le regard
--

   Un constat partagé par François Jost, universitaire spécialiste des
   médias : « Se trouver face à la caméra est une situation propice à
   l’orgueil. Aujourd’hui, selon moi, les intervenants les plus
   orgueilleux en télé sont les éditorialistes et chroniqueurs qui font
   comme s’ils étaient spécialistes de tout. Des types qui, sur les
   chaînes d’info en continu notamment, corrigent par exemple les copies
   du gouvernement et clament : l’idée de se présenter comme quelqu’un de
   compétent en tout, c’est l’hubris grec, cette démesure, ce sentiment
   inspiré par l’orgueil. Et l’on entend souvent dans les JT de 20 heures
   la formule, comble de l’orgueil. Comme si en 25 ou 30 minutes, on
   pouvait expliquer tous les événements de la journée, toutes les
   complexités du monde ! »


   L’orgueil est certes péché, notamment lorsqu’il dérive avec facilité
   vers la vanité ou l’arrogance. Mais il peut aussi avoir du bon. De
   fait, l’orgueil touche souvent des êtres de qualité. A la différence du
   vaniteux qui veut montrer sa supposée supériorité, l’orgueilleux se
   croit supérieur mais se moque de ce que l’on pense de lui. A la
   télévision, milieu professionnel souvent cynique et violent, où
   l’argent et le pouvoir ont leurs aises, l’orgueil permet de bâtir des
   carrières, de durer à l’antenne pendant de longues décennies (Michel
   Drucker, si tu nous entends...), et protège parfois des dégâts
   occasionnés par de cruelles critiques.

   « L’orgueil est d’abord une qualité , c’est ce qui nous distingue des
   animaux »,  estime l’historienne et politologue Isabelle Veyrat-Masson
   qui, outre ses recherches, a découvert de l’intérieur l’univers pour le
   moins baroque de la télé en tant qu’invitée de l'émission « Média le
   Magazine », sur France 5. « La télé aujourd’hui peut rendre fou. Et
   orgueilleux. Elle permet à celles et ceux qui y travaillent de
   s’adresser à des millions de témoins. L’argent qui y circule vous isole
   du réel, de la vraie vie. Assez logique lorsque vous gagnez en une
   journée des sommes parfois indécentes. Cet argent gagné peut, chez les
   gens de télé, développer leur orgueil : si je vaux cette somme, c’est
   que je suis meilleur que les autres en quelque sorte. »

   La télé, territoire éminemment propice pour les orgueilleux ? Il n’en a
   pas toujours été ainsi, comme le rappelle Isabelle Veyrat-Masson : « Au
   tout début, dans les années 1950, il fallait manquer d’orgueil pour y
   travailler puisque personne ne regardait ce média. C’était avant tout
   un divertissement et, en France, les saltimbanques ne jouissaient pas
   d’un statut social très enviable. Ce n’est que progressivement que la
   télé a acquis ses lettres de noblesse en adoptant la célèbre formule de
   la BBC : informer, cultiver, distraire. Au fil du temps, l’orgueil
   s’est donc installé au cœur d’un média qui se voit de plus en plus
   puissant.»

   L’un des premiers vrais orgueilleux de la télé française est le
   mythique Léon Zitrone (1914-1995). Présentateur du journal télévisé dès
   1958 et pendant plus de vingt ans, animateur-saltimbanque
   d’« Intervilles », commentateur tout terrain (du Tour de France aux
   défilés du 14-Juillet), le personnage, cultivé et orgueilleux, valait
   le détour « Qu’on parle de moi en bien ou en mal, peu importe.
   L’essentiel est qu’on parle de moi », résumait  Zitrone, qui n’était
   pas dupe : « La popularité, c’est d'éternuer à l’écran et de recevoir
   le lendemain des centaines de cartes postales avec écrit : “A vos
   souhaits!” »

   Devenu média de masse, la télé est un lieu idéal pour que l’orgueil s’y
   installe à son aise. « Chez les gens de télé, l’orgueil tient aussi son
   fondement à l’audience : je représente tant de gens, mon émission fait
   tant d’audience, estime François Jost. On retrouve même ce sentiment
   chez des candidats de télé-réalité, oubliés du jour au lendemain, et
   qui affirment face caméra », souligne encore François Jost. « Derrière
   l’orgueil à la télé, il y a la peur de mourir ! », affirme Raphaël
   Enthoven, qui poursuit : « Passer à la télé, c’est se soucier de ce
   qu’on en dit, de ce qu’on y montre. C’est endosser une identité, comme
   le garçon de café de Sartre. Passer à la télé, c’est faire partie des
--

   L’avis des philosophes et chercheurs rejoint-il la réalité ? Qu’en
   pensent celles et ceux qui font la télé ? « Oui, la télé est le palais
   des orgueilleux !  Sans orgueil, on ne peux pas y réussir. Car comment
   vivre sans lumières ? Mais les gens de télé ont souvent l’orgueil
   blessé car c’est un univers d’humiliation permanent », affirme Léa
   Salamé qui, après avoir brillé sur i-Télé, va rejoindre à la rentrée
   Laurent Ruquier sur France 2 dans l’émission hebdomadaire « On n’est
   pas couché ». Lorsque Thierry Ardisson qualifie son émission « Tout le
   monde en parle » (diffusée de 1998 à 2006) de « miracle », on nage dans
   l’orgueil. Lorsque Patrick Poivre d’Arvor présente durant trois
   décennies le JT de 20 heures sur une grande chaîne française (Antenne 2
   de 1975 à 1983 puis TF1 entre 1987 et 2008), l’orgueil est évidemment
   présent. Lorsque Frédéric Taddeï affirme : « Il est important de ne pas
   être moins bien payé que les autres », il a le mérite de ne pas cacher
   son orgueil qui est aussi, on l’a vu, un carburant efficace pour faire
   carrière en télé.

   « A certains moments de ma vie professionnelle, l’orgueil a été un
   moteur, un excellent accélérateur de carrière », avoue Caroline Roux,
   ancienne d’Europe 1 et de Canal+, présentatrice depuis deux ans de
   l’émission hebdomadaire « C Politique », le dimanche sur France 5.
   « Lorsque j’ai décidé de ne plus être chroniqueuse pour tenter de
   présenter une émission, il fallait de l’orgueil, avoir une assez haute
   opinion de soi. Mais dans l’exercice de mon métier, je tente d’éviter
   le péché d’orgueil. Face à mon invité, je suis à l’écoute ». Habitué à
   travailler pour la télévision, l’écrivain et scénariste Dan Frank
   insiste sur cet aspect : « A la télé, ce qui est insupportable, ce sont
   ces présentateurs qui se servent de l’invité  pour se mettre en valeur.
   C’est le comble de l’orgueil ! »

   Cours en ligne, cours du soir, ateliers : développez vos compétences

   Découvrir

   Au-delà de celles et ceux qui font la télé, des personnages de
   fictions, héros de séries orgueilleux, ont envahi nos écrans. Médecins,
   politiciens (Frank Underwood alias Kevin Spacey dans « House of
   Cards »), publicitaires (la plupart des personnages de « Mad Men ») ou
   simple prof devenu dealer (Bryan Cranston interprétant Walter White
   dans « Breaking Bad »), les orgueilleux règnent en maîtres dans la
   fiction télé. Il y a quelques semaines, Bernard Pivot a twitté le
   message suivant : « L’orgueil de Dieu n’est pas le plus considérable.
   Il est surpassé par celui des hommes politiques. » L’ancien
   présentateur d’émissions culturelles de qualité devenu président de
   l’Académie Goncourt aurait pu ajouter : « Et par celui des gens de</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-45">
<text>     * Psycho
     * Psycho couple

Couple : quand l'orgueil altère l’amour…

   [ ] Un couple se dispute par orgueil © iStock / PixelsEffect

   Publié par Daisy Le Corre  |  Mis à jour le 19 janv. 2023 par Manon
   Duran

   Par amour, certains sont prêts à tout. Et par orgueil ? On est souvent
   capable du pire, et les conséquences sont rarement positives. Exemples
   avec quelques orgueilleux et leurs conjoint(e)s qui prennent sur eux
   quotidiennement.
   (BUTTON) À lire plus tard
   (BUTTON)
--
     * Un ego plus fort que l'amour
     * "Je ne peux pas le contredire"
     * "Elle m'a rendu fou !"
     * Comment réagir face à une personne orgueilleuse ?
     * En podcast : Que faire face à des personnes toxiques ?

   Pêché capital par excellence et principale source de conflits dans les
   relations amicales et amoureuses, l’orgueil est dévastateur. Il peut
   amener l’orgueilleux à incarner cette tête à claques imbuvable.

Un ego plus fort que l'amour

   Derrière leurs airs de têtes à claques, les orgueilleux sont souvent
   très gentils. Mais rien n'excuse le fait de jouer avec les sentiments
   d'autrui parce que l'ego prend plus de place que le cœur.

   Qu’on se le dise, à un certain stade, les symptômes de l’orgueilleux
   peuvent rejoindre ceux du pervers narcissique. Raison pour laquelle il
   est important de stopper rapidement la marche de
   l’orgueilleux/orgueilleuse qui partage votre vie.

   Attention cependant à ne pas faire d’amalgame : tout le monde est un
   peu orgueilleux, reste à trouver le juste milieu. L’amour-propre et le
   narcissisme (à une dose raisonnable) constituent notre identité et sont
   nécessaires à notre épanouissement. Mais, comme souvent, tout est une
   question de dosage.
--
"Je ne peux pas le contredire"

   Peu importe que vous soyez toujours aussi raide dingue de lui (d'elle)
   depuis six ans : son orgueil vous ronge. L’orgueil tue l’amour, point.
   Difficile, voire impossible, de s’épanouir dans une relation où l’autre
   considère que vous n’avez rien à lui apprendre/apporter et que votre
   rôle principal est de lui vouer un culte digne de la groupie du
--

"Elle m'a rendu fou !"

   David lui a eu affaire à une orgueilleuse de "haut niveau", comme il
   dit. "Elle m’a rendu fou ! Je lui ai couru après pendant deux ans, je
   lui ai fait part de mes sentiments sans jamais qu’elle daigne me
   répondre. Elle continuait à m’envoyer des centaines de textos par jour
--

   Lassé, le jeune homme lui a finalement envoyé un dernier message avec
   cette citation de Mansur al-Hallaj, un poète persan du IXe siècle :
   "Par orgueil je refusais le bonheur de l'amour. Et je subis le
   châtiment de l’orgueil". A bon entendeur…

Comment réagir face à une personne orgueilleuse ?

   A quoi ça sert d’être orgueilleux ? Il ne faut pas chercher de
   rationalité là-dedans. C’est comme si on demandait à quelqu’un qui a
   une bronchite d’arrêter de tousser. Impossible tant que la maladie n’a
   pas muté. Julien est justement en pleine mutation. Il a mis fin à sa
   première histoire d’amour (huit ans de relation) l’année dernière.

     J’étais devenu dingue. Je ne me reconnaissais plus, mon orgueil
     avait pris le dessus sur l’amour que je portais à ma compagne. Pour
     ne pas la trahir davantage, j’ai décidé de la quitter, confie
     l’orgueilleux en désintox.

   Après une longue traversée du désert en tête à tête avec lui-même, il a
   enfin tombé le masque. "J’ai quitté mon monde imaginaire où j’incarnais
--
   des gens qui écoutent les autres, qui se mettent à leur place et qui
   font preuve de ce beau sentiment qu’est l’humilité.

   "L’orgueilleux aimera mieux se perdre que de demander son chemin",
   disait Charles Churchill. Mon conseil, si vous croisez la route d’un
   orgueilleux : laissez-le se perdre et s’il revient vers vous, ne lui
   tendez pas votre boussole. Proposez-lui de la partager avec vous et
   trouvez votre chemin à deux. Sinon, faites demi-tour, seul(e). Et
   retenez : il n’y a pas de bon orgueil. Ça se saurait.

Que faire face à des personnes toxiques ?</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-46">
<text>     * A à Z des articles
     * Mentions légales

Les 7 Dimensions de l’Orgueil

   Accueil › A à Z des articles › Les 7 Dimensions de l’Orgueil

   Pyramides d’Egypte, l’une des 7 Merveilles du Monde © PixxlTeufel /
   Pixabay.com
--

Accueil Provence 7

Les 7 Dimensions de l’Orgueil
     __________________________________________________________________


   La Grenouille qui voulait être un Roi © Ulticke Mai/Pixabay.com


Orgueil Péché Capital numéro 1
     __________________________________________________________________


--


     * Voir article Les 7 Péchés Capitaux.
     * La cruauté est le remède de l’orgueil blessé. Friedrich Nietzsche.


Orgueil et Amour
     __________________________________________________________________


     * Les 2 mots Orgueil et Amour s’opposent radicalement sauf, bien
       entendu lorsqu’il s’agit d’amour-propre...


Orgueil, Philosophie et Sciences Humaines
     __________________________________________________________________


   Orgueil-miroir © Gerd Altmann/Pixabay.com.


3 Ressources que l’Orgueilleux se reconnaît et qui le confirment

     * Qualités humaines : beauté, intelligence, force…
     * Accomplissements  : art, création, sport, travail…
--
       de richesses (marques, bijoux, avions, bateaux, voitures…).…


7 Comportements de l’orgueil

     * Se placer au centre de l’attention.
     * Vouloir avoir raison.
--
     * Juger durement les autres.


7 difficultés psychologiques provoquées par l’orgueil

     * Bonheur.
     * Confiance en soi.
--
     * Réalisation de soi.


7 Difficultés relationnelles rencontrées par l’orgueil

     * Leur amour d’eux-mêmes et leur manque de confiance obscurcissent
       leurs relations.
--
     * Difficulté pour travailler avec des collaborateurs.
     * Posent des problèmes dans les équipes.
     * Mauvais négociateurs.
     * L’orgueilleux est en compétition constante avec les autres


Défenseurs de l’Orgueil

     * Rares sont les défenseurs de l’Orgueil.
     * La philosophe américaine Ayn Rand occupe une place à part.
         1. Des livres notamment The Foutainhead (1943) – Atlas Shrugged
            (1957) et The Virtue of Selfishness (1964) développent les
--
            soi, contre l’altruisme.


Les Mots de l’Orgueil
     __________________________________________________________________


--
     * Sécurité (en) – Supérieur – Sûr


Les Anti-mots de l’orgueil

     * Mots auxquels l’orgueil est particulièrement sensible
         1. Blessé – Faille – Inférieur – Rejeté…


Citations et Proverbes sur l’Orgueil
     __________________________________________________________________


   Combat avec l’autre et avec son propre ego © John Hain/Pixabay.com


7 Citations sur l’orgueil

     * De toutes nos passions, la plus difficile à vaincre c’est l’orgueil
       ; que vous le déguisiez, que vous l’étouffiez ou le terrassiez, il
       apparaîtra pas moins plein de vie, au moment où vous y penserez le
       moins. Benjamin Franklin Mes Mémoires (1817).
     * Un vieil imbécile est plein d’orgueil, il prend ses radotages pour
       de l’expérience. Jean Dutourd. Leporello (2007).
     * L’orgueil a d’autant plus de hauteur qu’il s’est élevé de plus bas.
       Pierre-Claude-Victor Boiste. Le dictionnaire universel (1800).
     * L’orgueil n’est jamais mieux déguisé que lors qu’il se cache sous
       la figure de l’humilité. François de La Rochefoucauld. Les
       réflexions et sentences morales (1665).
     * Plus l’orgueil s’élève, plus il fait le vide au-dessous de lui :
       c’est un abîme qu’il se creuse et une chute qu’il se prépare.
       Alfred Auguste Pilavoine. Les pensées, mélanges et poésies (1845).
     * L’astronomie est née de la superstition ; l’éloquence de
       l’ambition, de la haine, de la flatterie, du mensonge ; la
       géométrie de l’avarice ; la physique d’une vraie curiosité ; toutes
       et la morale même de l’orgueil humain. Jean-Jacques Rousseau.
     * Il y a quelque chose de plus haut que l’orgueil, et de plus noble
       que la vanité, c’est la modestie, et quelque chose de plus rare que
       la modestie, c’est la simplicité. Rivarol.


7 Proverbes sur l’orgueil

     * Sois riche sans orgueil, et pauvre sans bassesse. Proverbe Grec
       Antique.
     * L’orgueil est justement puni par le mépris. Proverbe Latin.
     * Quand l’orgueil vient, le bonheur s’en va. Proverbe Allemand.
     * Que l’humilité des autres ne te donne point d’orgueil. Proverbe
       Danois.
     * C’est notre orgueil qui se plaint de l’orgueil des autres. Proverbe
       Espagnol.
     * Quand un homme a acquis quelque richesse intérieure, il la montre
       avec orgueil à l’extérieur. C’est quand les nuages sont pleins
       d’eau qu’ils s’agitent et font entendre le bruit du tonnerre.
       Proverbe Thébétain.
     * De l’orgueil du pauvre le diable se torche le cul. Proverbe
       provençal.


Orgueil et Œuvres d’art
     __________________________________________________________________


   Les 7 Merveilles du Monde Antique ont beaucoup à voir avec l’orgueil…
   Orgueil des donneurs d’ordre, des architectes… et des visiteurs.


Orgueil et Création

     * La fonction de création est souvent proche du sentiment d’orgueil
       et en tout cas du sentiment de puissance sur l’objet de la création
       et sur les consommateurs  / amateurs et même les opposants à la
       création.
     * Créer et Communiquer sont des fonctions et des actes qui peuvent
       facilement engendrer de l’orgueil.
         1. Dieu est le Créateur et le Communicant et l’Orgueil est
            désigné Péché N°1.
         2. De nombreuses civilisations, la plupart probablement, visent à
            contrôler la création et la communication au profit d’un petit
            nombre d’autorisés.
         3. Les autorisants et les autorisés entrent alors dans les
            antichambres de l’orgueil…


Architecture et Orgueil

     * Ayn Rand choisit un architecte pour son livre The Virtue of
       Selfishness (1964).
     * L’orgueil de l’architecte et l’orgueil  du donneur d’ordre…


Cinéma, Théâtre et orgueil

     * L’orgueil des cinéastes.
     * L’orgueil des acteurs et actrices.
     * Les films sur l’Orgueil. « Les Orgueilleux »…


Littérature et Orgueil

     * L’orgueil des auteurs.
     * Les livres sur l’orgueil.


Musique et Orgueil

     * L’orgueil des musiciens et des interprètes.
     * Les musiques et chansons sur l’orgueil.


Peinture et Orgueil

     * L’orgueil du peintre.
         1. Dali…
     * L’orgueil du sujet.
         1. Commande d’un portrait,  de la représentation d’un château,
            d’une demeure….
         2. Autoportrait…


Sculpture et Orgueil


     * Voir articles Provence 7 Sculptures – Statues Romaines – Sculpteurs
       Célèbres – Femmes Sculpteurs – Sculptures et Sculpteurs à Monaco...
     * L’orgueil du sculpteur.
     * L’orgueil du sujet.
         1. Se faire sculpter a longtemps été le privilège des Rois,
            Reines, Empereurs et Impératrices.

--
     * Les pharaons d’Egypte font construire des pyramides…


Pour en savoir plus sur l’Orgueil et sur le 7
     __________________________________________________________________


--



Livres sur l’orgueil
     __________________________________________________________________


   2019. L’erreur et l’orgueil : penseurs de la gauche moderne. Roger
   Scruton.
   1976. L’orgueil du Paon. Victoria Holt. J’ai Lu.
   1813. Orgueil et Préjugés. Jane Austen. Le Livre de Poche.

   A à Z des articles Symbole 7 Symboles Chrétiens Top 7 #7 #dimensions
   #Orgueil #péchés #Sept

Translate:

--

7 Dimensions

de l’Orgueil
     __________________________________________________________________

   © Peter Linforth – Pixabay /Patrick Verlinden.</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-47">
<text>Vous êtes ici

   Accueil
   Choiseul. L’orgueil au pouvoir

Contenus liés

--
     * Chartistes à l’œuvre,
     * Conférence

Choiseul. L’orgueil au pouvoir

   Portrait en buste d'Etienne-François, duc de Choiseul en cuirasse,
   portant le cordon bleu, Louis-Michel van Loo (entre 1750 et 1800)
--
   portant le cordon bleu, Louis-Michel van Loo (entre 1750 et 1800)
   David Feutry, archiviste paléographe (prom. 2008) et professeur agrégé
   au lycée Édouard-Branly de Dreux, donne une conférence intitulée
   Choiseul. L’orgueil au pouvoir, autour de son ouvrage publié aux
   éditions Perrin (septembre 2023).
   Ministre le plus influent sous Louis XV, le duc de Choiseul (1719-1785)
   connut une trajectoire singulière : militaire puis diplomate et enfin
--
   65, rue de Richelieu, Paris 2^e (salle Léopold-Delisle)

   Inscription obligatoire
   Couverture de l’ouvrage Le Duc de Choiseul. L’orgueil au pouvoir

En savoir plus

     * David Feutry, Le Duc de Choiseul. L’orgueil au pouvoir, éditions
       Perrin (septembre 2023)

Intervenant
--

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/foYluMKELhg

Choiseul. L’orgueil au pouvoir

   Publié le 9 octobre 2023
    © ENC

Choiseul. L’orgueil au pouvoir

   Publié le 9/10/2023
   Date de publication :</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-48">
<text>   #Apprendre à éduquer » Flux Apprendre à éduquer » Flux des commentaires
   Apprendre à éduquer » Comment cultiver la confiance en soi sans tomber
   dans l’orgueil ? Flux des commentaires alternate alternate

   Skip to content

--
   Rechercher ____________________
   

Comment cultiver la confiance en soi sans tomber dans l’orgueil ?

   Accueil/Articles/Au quotidien, Pour les adultes/Comment cultiver la
   confiance en soi sans tomber dans l’orgueil ?

   Comment cultiver la confiance en soi sans tomber dans l’orgueil ?

                                 [INS: :INS]

Quelles différences entre confiance en soi et orgueil ?

   confiance en soi orgueil confiance en soi orgueil


L’orgueil : l’important, c’est de briller !

   Dans leur livre Comment ne pas finir comme tes parents, Soizic Michelot
   et Anaël Assier différencient orgueil et confiance en soi.
   [INS: :INS]

   Pour eux, l’orgueil trahit de manière inappropriée et excessive le
   besoin de faire savoir au monde qu’on existe et de nous confirmer à
   nous-mêmes notre propre existence, de se défendre contre la peur d’être
   rien ou pas assez. Il n’y a que quand il est devant les projecteurs que
   l’orgueil se sent exister… quitte à écraser les autres sur son passage
   (ce qui n’est pas -toujours-intentionnel puisqu’il n’a conscience que
   de lui même).

--
     cherche à le colmater par la reconnaissance des autres. – Soizic
     Michelot et Anaël Assier

   L’orgueil chercher à s’étendre sans fin : plus son territoire est
   grand, plus il se sent important et plus il est rassuré.
   Malheureusement, pour l’orgueil, personne ne peut tout avoir ou tout
   être et ce manque le maintient dans une inquiétude qui le pousse à
   briller encore plus, à se mettre encore plus en avant.

--
     revendiquer son indépendance. – Soizic Michelot et Anaël Assier


   Pour passer de l’orgueil à la confiance en soi saine, on pourra
   commencer par se familiariser avec le fait que nous sommes égaux aux
   autres et par accepter d’être aimés non pas pour ce que nous cherchons
   à paraître mais pour ce qu’ils sont.
--

La confiance en soi : la dimension de sagesse de l’ego

     Dans sa dimension éclairée, Orgueil passe du besoin de confirmer son
     existence à la certitude que sa présence au monde est un bienfait
     pour l’humanité. Une sensation de confiance et de générosité se
     dégage de chacun de ses gestes. – Soizic Michelot et Anaël Assier
--
   et de ses failles sans se sentir anéantie ou attaquée personnellement.


8 pistes pour cultiver la confiance en soi sans tomber dans l’orgueil

   S’entrainer à trouver un point positif en toutes choses, même les plus
   désagréables.</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-5">
<text>Orgueil

     *
     *
--

     * Accueil
     * Mairie
     * Vivre à Orgueil
     * Urbanisme
     * Enfance/Jeunesse
     * Associations
--

   Index a z

   Mairie d'Orgueil
   281 Grand rue
   82370 Orgueil
   Tél. 00 33 (0)5 63 30 51 50
   Nous contacter

--

Services en ligne

   [carteorgueil.png]

Cantine intergénérationnelle

--
non reconnaissance de l'état de catastrophe naturelle

   Par arrêté interministériel du 25 avril 2023, publié au Journal
   Officiel du 10 Juin 2023 la commune d'ORGUEIL, n'a pas été reconnu en
   état de catastrophe naturelle suite à la sécheresse / Réhydratation des
   sols pour la période...[En savoir plus]
   [En savoir plus]
--

Cérémonie des voeux

   Willy AUTHESSERRE, Maire d'Orgueil et le Conseil Municipal ont le
   plaisir de vous inviter à la cérémonie des vœux le 21 Janvier à 11h30 à
   l'espace J. Capellini.[En savoir plus]
   [En savoir plus]
--
Limitation des prélèvements d'eau

   La préfète de Tarn-et-Garonne a pris un arrêté le 1/06/2022 qui prend
   effet samedi 4/06/2022 de limitation des prélèvements d'eau. Orgueil
   est au niveau 1B (petits affluents du Tarn) cliquez-ici pour le
   Communiqué de presse et...[En savoir plus]
   [En savoir plus]
--
     * Contact
     * Boîte à idées

   Mairie d'Orgueil 281 Grand rue - 82370 Orgueil - Tél 00 33 (0)5 63 30
   51 50 - Fax 00 33 (0)5 63 30 16 38
   Site généré avec le CMS UTOPIA développée par In-Cité Solution pour le
   CDG82 dans le cadre du PRAi</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-50">
<text>   Sélectionner une page
   ____________________

Comment se libérer de l’orgueil ?

   par Sébastien

--

   Je découvre !

   Orgueil
     *
     *
     *

Qu’est-ce que l’orgueil ?

     Éric est responsable d’équipe au sein d’une entreprise. Son équipe
     lui envoie le retour qu’il tire toujours la couverture à lui. Ce qui
     génère des tensions au sein de l’équipe et lui rend sa fonction
     difficile Éric a conscience qu’il a besoin de se mettre en avant et
     qu’il a tendance à faire preuve d’orgueil. Il a travaillé dur pour
     arriver là où il est et il est fier de cette réussite. Et en même
     temps, Éric sait que son orgueil engendre des conflits. Ceci le gène
     et il souhaiterait s’en libérer.

   Ici, l’orgueil est défini comme le fait de se mettre constamment en
   avant au détriment des autres.

D’où vient l’orgueil ?

Une soumission à l’autorité

--
     bien que l’enfant spontané doit mettre plus de puissance pour
     pouvoir s’exprimer. Quand il va exprimer sa valeur, il en fera des
     tonnes pour ne pas être étouffé par l’enfant protecteur. Cette
     réaction de l’enfant spontané est communément appelée « l’orgueil ».

   Comme nous pouvons le voir avec l’histoire d’Éric, l’orgueil est
   l’expression d’une non-reconnaissance de l’enfant spontané. Et de la
   tentative de ce dernier pour avoir la reconnaissance en mettant en
   avant sa valeur. L’enfant spontané en fait beaucoup, car il n’a pas
--
     inconfortables. La liberté est de choisir celle qui est la plus
     confortable à long terme.

Comment se libérer de l’orgueil ?

Prendre conscience qu’il n’y a pas d’autre autorité que la mienne

   L’orgueil est basé sur le besoin de reconnaissance d’une autorité
   extérieure. Nous avons vu que cette dernière est une perception erronée
   d’un enfant avec un cerveau immature. Je ne suis plus dépendant de
   l’adulte !
--
     qu’il bloquait ou qu’il laissait entrer. Si bien qu’il bloquait les
     informations venant d’une personne expérimentée qui a fait ses
     preuves dans son domaine et qu’il était dans ce cas jugé
     d’orgueilleux. Et inversement, il écoutait des personnes qui
     n’étaient pas du tout des autorités dans leur domaine, voir même
     l’inverse. Ceci, juste pour avoir la reconnaissance. Son autorité
     intérieure était défaillante, car elle était basée sur un besoin de
--
     souhaiterait contribuer. Il était enfermé dans le regard extérieur,
     sans avoir pris le temps de regarder l’intérieur !

     L’orgueil est le reflet de la non-reconnaissance de soi. D’un regard
     exclusivement porté sur le regard extérieur. Venant la croyance en
     une autorité extérieure qui sait mieux que moi comment je dois vivre
     ma vie.</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-51">
<text>
     Tarn-et-Garonne

     ORGUEIL

     ORGUEIL Mairie

La Poste Agence Communale ORGUEIL Mairie

   08h30 - 12h30 08h30 - 12h30 08h30 - 12h30 08h30 - 12h30 08h30 - 12h30
   09h00 - 12h00Closed Today


   285 GRAND RUE
   82370 ORGUEIL

Horaires

--
               o Souscription de Box Internet
               o Vente de cartes prépayées

La Poste Agence Communale ORGUEIL Mairie
                 Votre point de contact La Poste Agence Communale ORGUEIL
                 Mairie vous accueille à ORGUEIL pour répondre à vos
                 besoins d'affranchissement Courrier-Colis. Avec
                 laposte.fr, vous pouvez également, sans vous déplacer,
                 imprimer des timbres personnalisés, des étiquettes colis
--
                 Découvrez toutes les offres et services en ligne de La
                 Poste
                 Get directions to La Poste Agence Communale at 285 GRAND
                 RUE ORGUEIL,
                 (BUTTON) Previous
                 Visuel avec le bonnet phrygien traduisant le partenariat
                 entre La Poste et les Jeux Olympiques 2024
--
Faites le plein de timbres pour vos vœux !
                 Profitez de cette fin d'année pour faire vos vœux à vos
                 proches. A cette occasion retrouvez sur laposte.fr ou
                 dans votre bureau de Poste ORGUEIL Mairie l'ensemble des
                 timbres pour accompagner vos cartes.
                 En savoir plus
                 (BUTTON) Next
--
                   1. Localiser
                   2. Liste
                   3. Tarn-et-Garonne
                   4. ORGUEIL
                   5. ORGUEIL Mairie
                 Logo de la société La Poste - retour à l'accueil de La
                 Poste.fr
                    # Plan du site</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-52">
<text>   Skillz Skillz SmartMotion SmartMotion Jeunes Pousses Jeunes Pousses

   Comme le trahit l’expression : « Fier comme un paon », le paon est
   l’animal qui nous semble le plus orgueilleux. © Ricardo Porto, Unsplash
   Comme le trahit l’expression : « Fier comme un paon », le paon est
   l’animal qui nous semble le plus orgueilleux. © Ricardo Porto, Unsplash

   sciencesquestions réponses

Péchés capitaux : l’orgueil comme moteur de notre vie ?

   Péchés Capitaux

--

   • 3 Min

   L’orgueil. Cette sensation que l’on est supérieur aux autres. Plus
   méritant. Vous connaissez ? Pour l’Église, c’est toujours péché et
   même, péché capital ! Or les scientifiques l’assurent aujourd’hui :
   l’orgueil, s’il reste dans les limites du raisonnable, constitue un
   moteur essentiel à notre vie.
     __________________________________________________________________

--
   nécessairement aux péchés les plus graves qui puissent être commis. En
   revanche, ils sont à l'origine de tous les autres péchés. Et ils sont
   des péchés que l'on commet pour eux-mêmes. Le Catéchisme en liste
   sept : l'orgueil, l'avarice, l'envie, la colère, la luxure, la
   gourmandise et la paresse.

   Nous vous proposons aujourd'hui de porter sur l'un d'entre eux,
   l'orgueil, le péché capital par excellence, un regard décalé. Un regard
   éclairé de quelques considérations scientifiques qui pourraient bien
   nous mener à changer notre regard sur ceux qui font preuve d'une grande
   estime de soi.
   Chez les primates, l’instinct de compétition sociale est grand et
   certains talents liés à l’orgueil apparaissent utiles au succès
   reproducteur de l’individu. © Eirik Skarstein, Unsplash
   Image du site Futura Sciences
   Chez les primates, l’instinct de compétition sociale est grand et
   certains talents liés à l’orgueil apparaissent utiles au succès
   reproducteur de l’individu. © Eirik Skarstein, Unsplash

L’orgueil : ce que nous apprend la science

   Une fois n'est pas coutume, mettons les pieds dans le plat d'entrée de
   jeu. Car certains chercheurs l'affirment : l'orgueil n'est pas un
   défaut. Et ils vont même plus loin en posant que l'orgueil correspond à
   un besoin essentiel. Aussi essentiel à notre survie même que la faim,
   la peur ou la libidolibido. L'orgueil en effet nous aide à prendre
   notre place -- et à la maintenir -- dans la société.

   Des études montrent ainsi que l'orgueil peut être un moteur de notre
   vie. Félicitez quelqu'un pour ses capacités et -- fort de cette
   confiance en lui qui vous lui aurez transmise -- il se montrera
   d'autant plus volontaire à s'améliorer encore. D'autres
   travaux confirment que l'orgueil joue sur notre persévérance et semble
   aussi agir sur notre capacité d'autocontrôle. Ainsi les plus fiers
   d'entre nous auraient plus de facilité à résister aux tentations qui
   pourraient les détourner de leur objectif.
   Testostérone et sentiment d’orgueil seraient liés. © Brad Neathery,
   Unsplash
   Image du site Futura Sciences
   Testostérone et sentiment d’orgueil seraient liés. © Brad Neathery,
   Unsplash

   Peut-être parce que dans notre cerveau, la fierté et la honte activent
   des circuits neuronaux similaires, du côté du circuit de la
   récompensecircuit de la récompense, quelque part entre l'amygdale,
   l'insulainsula, le striatum ventral et le cortex préfrontalcortex
   préfrontal. Mais que de manière étonnante, l'orgueil est capable de les
   activer de manière bien plus marquée. Transformant ce sentiment en une
   sorte de récompense naturelle qui nous aide à adapter nos comportements
   sociaux.

Le syndrome d’hubris : quand l’orgueil devient maladif

   Reste cependant à ne pas tomber dans l'excès. À ne pas devenir accro à
   soi-même. Car comme les droguesdrogues, l'orgueil pourrait avoir des
   effets néfastes sur notre cerveaucerveau. À terme, trop de fierté peut
   nous fragiliser. En anglais, il existe un concept pour qualifier cette
   sorte d'orgueil démesuré. On l'appelle hubris. Et il peut toucher aussi
   bien les hommes d'État que nos collègues de bureau après avoir obtenu
   une promotion.

--
   nous empêcherait de nous évaluer à notre juste valeur. D'autant que
   notre entourage peut trouver quelque chose de rassurant à l'expression
   de cette confiance et ainsi, nous pousser encore un peu plus à
   l'orgueil.
   Les personnes qui souffrent du syndrome d’hubris font preuve d’un
   orgueil démesuré. © pathdoc, Fotolia
   Image du site Futura Sciences
   Les personnes qui souffrent du syndrome d’hubris font preuve d’un
   orgueil démesuré. © pathdoc, Fotolia

L’orgueil, péché capital ?

   Au regard de toutes ces considérations, la question de maintenir
   l'orgueil dans la liste des péchés capitaux semble pouvoir légitimement
   se poser. D'un point de vue scientifique -- et par conséquent, de celui
   de Futura --, l'orgueil semble résulter de notre évolution. Et il
   s'avère être un sentiment plutôt positif. Tant qu'il n'est pas poussé à
   l'extrême.

--
   actualité

   • 03/05/2014
   Un spécimen de la météorite d'Orgueil (France 1864). Crédit :
   collection du MNHN-Paris Un spécimen de la météorite d'Orgueil (France
   1864). Crédit : collection du MNHN-Paris

   Sciences
--
   Astronomie

   Le Système solaire est né d'un Little Bang, dixit la météorite
   d'Orgueil

   actualité

--
   Mots Clés
     __________________________________________________________________

   Orgueil

   Sept péchés capitaux</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-53">
<text>
   PASSION FRANÇAISE

                              Un si grand orgueil

   David Djaïz inspecteur des finances, Gianpaolo Pagni artiste
   plasticien,

   Temps de lecture : 10 minutes

Au XIXe siècle, l’orgueil, passion aristocratique, devient celle du peuple
tout entier. L’école et les instituteurs se chargent de diffuser cet orgueil
devenu national à toutes les strates de la société. La langue
et la littérature jouent un grand rôle dans sa fabrication.

   À première vue, il semble difficile de faire de l’orgueil, sentiment
   aristocratique par excellence, l’une des passions emblématiques de la
   France démocratique. Dans l’imaginaire commun, l’orgueil est une
   passion d’Ancien Régime, telle la gloire, dont Paul Morand disait
   qu’elle était restée coincée quelque part au XVII^e siècle. L’orgueil
   serait la passion typique du grand féodal, du suzerain, et, comme on le
   sait, suzeraineté et souveraineté populaire ne font pas bon ménage.

   Les écrivains conservateurs du XIX^e siècle – Balzac étant le plus
   grand d’entre tous – regrettaient d’ailleurs l’effacement de l’orgueil
   au profit des petits sentiments de la société démocratique, réputés
   vils et vénaux. Balzac a même donné à la disparition supposée de
   l’orgueil et de l’honneur dans la société matérialiste les traits
   magnifiques du colonel Chabert. Chabert est un véritable revenant
   d’entre les morts. Colonel de l’armée impériale, il a disparu lors
   d’une charge de cavalerie légendaire menée par Murat à la bataille
--
   capitaliste. Une France de clercs de notaire. Napoléon aura été
   au fond, pour Chabert comme pour Balzac, une pierre de touche de
   l’histoire nationale. À la fois le démolisseur du monde d’avant et le
   bâtisseur d’une cathédrale d’orgueil et d’honneur qui fut la dernière
   manifestation de l’économie passionnelle de cet Ancien Régime qu’il
   s’était employé à détruire.

   Les choses sont peut-être plus complexes. De même qu’il y a eu
   transfert de souveraineté de la personne du souverain vers le peuple,
   il y a eu à l’âge démocratique transfert de l’orgueil du seigneur vers
   la nation. C’est particulièrement net au XIX^e siècle, où l’orgueil
   n’est plus une passion individuelle, mais la passion d’un peuple tout
   entier qui se complaît dans un exceptionnalisme parfois largement
   fantasmé. La nation en armes n’a-t-elle pas tenu tête à toutes les
--
   21 septembre 1792, la date reste comme un jour de gloire nationale sur
   les almanachs.

     Il est besoin d’une grande quantité d’orgueil collectif pour faire
     France

   C’est qu’en France, plus qu’ailleurs, l’orgueil national est
   indispensable pour deux raisons. D’abord, il est la passion
   unificatrice par excellence. Il est besoin d’une grande quantité
   d’orgueil collectif pour faire France à partir d’un tel patchwork de
   provinces, de coutumes, de traditions, de langages et même de fromages.
   La chute de Fouquet, véritable « soleil offusqué », selon la géniale
   expression de Paul Morand, n’est au fond que le premier acte de cet
   orgueil d’État qui ne peut se manifester que dans l’écrasement des
   orgueils féodaux. L’offuscation du petit soleil Fouquet en dit long sur
   cet effort d’unification nationale entrepris par l’État royal,
   bien avant l’âge démocratique. Pour qu’existât quelque chose comme une
   nation, il fallait que l’État s’arrogeât le monopole de l’orgueil,
   il fallait que le Soleil ne souffrît pas d’astres concurrents.
   Telle est la leçon de la chute de Fouquet.

--

   C’est donc avec de telles grandes idées – les esprits caustiques
   diraient des généralités – qu’on a fait des Français. Theodore Zeldin,
   dans son beau livre consacré à l’orgueil français, a raison de faire
   remarquer l’importance de l’école et des instituteurs, avec leur
   moralisme parfois pesant de curés laïques, dans cette diffusion de
   l’orgueil national à toutes les strates de la société. Comme un
   vêtement trop large, ces idées sont tellement vastes qu’elles donnent
   envie d’embrasser le monde entier et pas seulement les
   550 000 kilomètres carrés de l’Hexagone.
--
     Paris ! »

   La langue et la littérature jouent un rôle dans la fabrique de
   l’orgueil national, et ce dès l’ordonnance de Villers-Cotterêts
   de 1539, qui fait du français, d’un même mouvement, la langue
   administrative et la langue littéraire, contre tous les patois,
   tous les parlers locaux. Un siècle plus tard, Racine fut fait
--
   les Mémoires de Retz ou ceux de Saint-Simon. Et Paris, Ville Lumière,
   pompe aspirante de toute la force brute du pays qui la recrache ensuite
   à la face du monde, civilisée et ouvragée, est aussi capitale mondiale
   de l’orgueil. Rastignac, l’idole de tous les ambitieux de province,
   ne conclut-il pas le Père Goriot au Père-Lachaise par un « À nous deux,
   Paris ! » qui a dû claquer au vent ce jour-là comme les oriflammes
   couronnant le cimetière ? Balzac lui-même était honteux de son origine
--
   trouver qu’Honoré de Balzac sonnait meilleure société que le simple
   patronyme occitan Balssa.

   Cet orgueil-là est celui de la marée montante d’une nation en
   construction et sûre d’elle-même, tellement sûre qu’elle se projette
   dans l’avenir et s’exporte. Mais que devient l’orgueil national lorsque
   la communauté vacille ? Après le déluge de feu et d’acier de la
   Première Guerre mondiale, au cours de laquelle le quart d’une classe
   d’âge a été tué dans les tranchées – sans parler des séquelles
--
   Tamerlan, les conquérants gagnent toujours grâce à la vitesse.

   Sur quoi pouvait-on compter alors pour se relever, sinon un sursaut
   d’orgueil ? Cette passion aristocratique fut aussi le carburant de la
   Résistance, au moment où la France touchait le point le plus bas de son
   histoire. « La flamme de la Résistance ne doit pas s’éteindre et ne
   s’éteindra pas », claironnait un général deux étoiles inconnu des
   Français au micro de la BBC le 18 juin 1940. Qu’est ici l’orgueil,
   sinon la conscience d’un écart inacceptable, insupportable entre
   l’idéal de la France et la réalité du pays après l’effondrement ? C’est
   peut-être ici que l’on touche le mieux à la grandeur française :
--

   C’est que peut-être la grandeur française n’est pas indifférente à ses
   turpitudes. Comme un cœur qui bat alterne diastole et systole, c’est au
   milieu des malheurs et du reflux que nous trouvons l’orgueil national
   qui nous permet de redresser la tête et d’inspirer à nouveau le monde.
   En juin 1940, la France est anéantie au sens propre du terme.
   Le gouvernement et le Parlement sont en fuite, l’armée est en
--
   fond de la piscine – parce que le différentiel entre ce que la France
   est devenue et ce qu’elle était avait atteint son maximum.

     L’orgueil est aussi la force des faibles, la force de celui qui dit
     « non »

   Le grand Charles agaçait prodigieusement les Anglo-Saxons, même si
   l’admiration et l’exaspération voisinaient dans le cœur de Churchill.
   Le vieil aristocrate anglais savait détecter les passions nobles chez
   ses semblables. De Gaulle avait d’ailleurs le physique de son
   tempérament orgueilleux : des traits anguleux et durs et de grandes
   mains de bûcheron. Dans ses Mémoires de guerre, on sait qu’il réécrit
   souvent l’histoire à son avantage, mais il atteint à la vérité tragique
   quand il se montre à Churchill tel qu’il est : chargé d’une mission qui
   le dépasse, écrasante parfois ; orgueilleux et dur parce que faible et
   conscient de sa faiblesse. Avec cette phrase véritablement eschylienne
   qui fit l’admiration de Claude Roy, au milieu de quelques afféteries
   rhétoriques : « Je suis trop pauvre pour me courber ! »

   L’orgueil national ne parvient-il pas à son niveau d’intensité maximale
   que lorsque la France est faible ? L’orgueil est aussi la force des
   faibles, la force de celui qui dit « non », de celui qui entre par la
   fenêtre quand on lui a fermé la porte. C’est sur ce constat que
   de Gaulle a tout entier fondé sa politique de la grandeur.
--
   mégalomanie ou arrogance aux étrangers qui regardent ce pays
   représentant 1 % de la population mondiale a été le moteur d’une
   certaine politique ; et ce n’était pas le moment où les Français furent
   les plus malheureux. Mais si l’orgueil est noble, parce qu’il élève et
   rassemble, la mégalomanie, l’arrogance et la prétention divisent et
   abaissent. Et en politique, je crains que nous ayons aujourd’hui
   davantage de mégalomanes, d’arrogants et de prétentieux que
   d’orgueilleux véritables.

   Ne perdons pas de vue cette leçon. Nous traversons une crise très
   difficile. Mais qu’est-ce, en comparaison de 1940 où la France n’était</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-54">
<text>
   Paru le : 14/11/2023

Dossier complet Commune d'Orgueil (82136)

   Chiffres détaillés
   Paru le :Paru le14/11/2023
--

Évolution et structure de la population en 2020

   Commune d'Orgueil (82136)

tableauPOP T0 - Population par grandes tranches d'âges

--

Couples - Familles - Ménages en 2020

   Commune d'Orgueil (82136)
     * Graphique
     * Tableau

--

Logement en 2020

   Commune d'Orgueil (82136)

tableauLOG T1 - Évolution du nombre de logements par catégorie en historique
depuis 1968
--

Diplômes - Formation en 2020

   Commune d'Orgueil (82136)

tableauFOR T1 - Scolarisation selon l'âge et le sexe en 2020

--

Population active, emploi et chômage au sens du recensement en 2020

   Commune d'Orgueil (82136)

tableauEMP T1 - Population de 15 à 64 ans par type d'activité

--

Caractéristiques de l'emploi au sens du recensement en 2020

   Commune d'Orgueil (82136)

tableauACT T1 - Population de 15 ans ou plus ayant un emploi selon le statut
en 2020
--

Naissances et décès domiciliés 2014-2022

   Commune d'Orgueil (82136)
     * Graphique
     * Tableau

--

Revenus et pauvreté des ménages en 2020

   Commune d'Orgueil (82136)

tableauREV T1 - Ménages fiscaux de l'année 2020

--

Démographie des entreprises et des établissements en 2022

   Commune d'Orgueil (82136)

tableauDEN T1 - Créations d'entreprises par secteur d'activité en 2022

--

Nombre d’unités légales et d’établissements en 2021

   Commune d'Orgueil (82136)

tableauDEN T3 - Nombre d'unités légales par secteur d'activité au 31 décembre
2020
--

Tourisme en 2023

   Commune d'Orgueil (82136)

tableauTOU T1 - Nombre et capacité des hôtels au 1er janvier 2023</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-55">
<text>   Chargement...
   Couverture fascicule

Orgueil, humilité et leurs vicissitudes. Une approche psychologique

[article]

--



   Saroglou Vassilis. Orgueil, humilité et leurs vicissitudes. Une
   approche psychologique. In: Revue théologique de Louvain, 41ᵉ année,
   fasc. 4, 2010. pp. 539-562.

--

   Vassilis Saroglou

   Orgueil, humilité et leurs vicissitudes Une approche psychologique

   Peut-on être humble quand le but ultime de sa vie (spirituelle) est la
   perfection1? Comment lutter contre l'orgueil sans tomber dans la fausse
   humilité? Ou comment lutter contre d'autres vices sans que cela ne
   fortifie l'orgueil? Peut-on être à la fois humble et intelligent ou
   vaut-il mieux être humble sans le savoir?

   Le combat contre l'orgueil et les vicissitudes -ou «effets secon¬
   daires» -de la lutte pour acquérir l'humilité constitue un domaine qui
   est très probablement au cœur du combat spirituel et de l'ascèse (ou de
   leurs excès). Il serait illusoire d'espérer apporter ici une solution à
--
   naire, faisant interagir les connaissances acquises en psychologie
   contemporaine, basées notamment sur des études empiriques, et les
   connaissances issues de la spiritualité ascétique ancienne, une spiri¬
   tualité dans laquelle le combat contre l'orgueil et pour l'humilité
   tient une place capitale. Une certaine familiarité acquise par nos
   travaux antérieurs avec la pensée de Jean Climaque nous amènera à nous
   référer souvent à lui2. C'est un auteur emblématique qui a rassemblé,
--
   du texte, nous le citerons par des renvois numérotés, entre
   parenthèses, indiquant la référence dans ce livre.

   3 Pour une approche théologique de l'orgueil et de l'humilité chez
   plusieurs pères orientaux, voir J.-C. Larchet, Thérapeutique des
   maladies spirituelles. Une introduction
   doc-ctrl/page/rotate-ccw doc-ctrl/page/rotate-ccw</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-56">
<text>     * Nature et Bien-être
     * Guides Secrets

On a testé l’incroyable restaurant Orgueil, dans le 11ème arrondissement de
Paris !

   Au coeur d’Orgueil, la gourmandise n’est définitivement plus un péché.
   Chez Paris Secret, nous avons eu la chance de pousser les portes de ce
   nouveau restaurant du 11ème arrondissement. Alerte coup de coeur !

   Laura Coll Laura Coll - Rédactrice en chef Paris Secret • juillet 18,
   2023

   Restaurant Orgueil Paris Photos : Orgueil Paris

   À mi-chemin entre bistro gourmand et speakeasy gastronomique, le
   restaurant Orgueil a pensé son concept dans les moindres détails. Dès
   notre arrivée, nous voilà immiscés dans une ambiance mystérieuse et
   fantaisiste. Immédiatement, notre regard est happé par les silhouettes
   baroques, compositions florales et détails cosmiques peints au plafond.
--

Un bistro gourmand et un speakeasy gastro, une cuisine pointue et anti-gaspi

   Restaurant Orgueil Paris Photos : Orgueil Paris

   À la tête des cuisines d’Orgueil, il y a Eloi Spinnler. Diplômé de la
   prestigieuse école de gastronomie Ferrandi, le jeune Chef a fait ses
   armes à Paris, Londres et Melbourne. S’il est notamment passé par les
   cuisines de la Tour d’Argent et du Plaza Athénée, cet orfèvre de la
   cuisine dévoile toute sa palette de talent chez Orgueil. Ici, le
   passionné Eloi Spinnler présente ses assiettes engagées, élaborées avec
   les produits de petits producteurs. Il met aussi un point d’honneur à
   produire une cuisine zéro-déchet.

Les 7 pêchés capitaux dans l’assiette

   Restaurant Orgueil Paris Photos : Orgueil Paris

   À peine installés côté bistro, les effluves émanant des assiettes de
   nos voisins de table font surgir notre premier pêché de la soirée :
   l’envie. En guise de Menu, Orgueil arbore de splendides cartes aux
   allures de Tarot divinatoire. Snack, Terre, Mer, végétarien, douceurs
   sucrées… Battre les cartes pour parcourir les différents mets à
   déguster rend l’expérience d’autant plus excitante.
--
Des cartes de tarot en guise de Menu et des assiettes à partager tout
simplement exquises

   Restaurant Orgueil Paris Mot de passe : colère secret

   Puis, place à la Terre avec une Canette sur le coffre, jus aux épices
   douces &amp; céleri à la flamme à tomber, que nous accompagnons avec une
   excellente pomme de terre fumée au jaune d’oeuf mariné et sureau. Le
   boeuf confit dans son jus, grenade et navets nouveaux vient appuyer
   notre ressenti : chez Orgueil, zéro fausse note. Plus encore, les
   associations de saveurs sont pensées à la perfection et mettent
   littéralement nos papilles en émoi. Et ici, point de péché d’avarice.
   Nous voici aussi repus qu’enchantés, prêts à goûter à quelques délices
--
   rafraîchissant trou Normand, parfaitement exécuté.

   Note de la rédaction : Avec son concept aussi novateur et enchanteur
   que sa cuisine, Orgueil a tout bon. Chez Paris Secret, on vous prévient
   : attendez-vous à avoir un énorme coup de coeur pour ce nouvel
   établissement du 11ème arrondissement !

Orgueil, 6 Rue Popincourt, 75011 Paris – Ouvert 7j/7 de 18h à 2h – Infos et
réservations

   REÇOIS-NOUS DANS TA BOÎTE MAIL</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-57">
<text>   Suivez l'actualité de vos communes favorites dans l'onglet Mon actu
   (BUTTON) J'ai compris

Orgueil (82370)

   Orgueil est une commune du département Tarn-et-Garonne et de la région
   Occitanie.

   Elle comptabilisait 1 723 habitants en 2018. Cinq ans plus tôt elle en
--

   En 2018, la commune a enregistré 27 naissances pour 7 décès.

   Willy AUTHESSERRE est maire de Orgueil.
   Que sait-on du météore qui a traversé le ciel français durant la nuit ?
   Un spécialiste répond à nos questions.
   Actu Toulouse
--
km de Toulouse

   Le 14 mai 1864, une météorite illumine le ciel de Toulouse et du
   Sud-Ouest, et s'écrase à Orgueil, près de Montauban. Une météorite
   fascinante à plusieurs titres. Voici pourquoi.
   14 mai 2023 Orgueil

L'agenda de vos sorties</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-58">
<text>
patrimoine

   Castrum d'Orgueil
   Eglise de Cabanac
   Château de Mauroux

   Couteau damasquiné du XIVe siècle

CASTRUM D'ORGUEIL

   Il était une fois le castrum d'Orgueil...

   ​

--
   (agglomération fortifiée) restât cependant toujours dans les mémoires
   comme en témoigne, au XVIIIe siècle la carte de Cassini et au XIXe
   siècle le plan cadastral de Mauroux, qui en font mention tantôt comme "
   port d'Orgueil " tantôt comme " ruines de la ville d'Orgueil ".


   Dès 1970 des fouilles entreprises dans le cours de la rivière
   ressuscitent physiquement un pan de son histoire.
   Mais c'est à partir de 1982, qu'Orgueil redécouverte par des fouilles
   de sauvetage révèlera aux yeux de tous une partie de ses secrets.


--
   rencontrés.


   Depuis 1987, privé de toute investigation, Orgueil s'en est retourné
   dans son silence, enseveli maintenant sous pierraille et végétation
   dense. Contrairement au château de " la belle au bois dormant ", le
   temps fait ici son œuvre, risquant de garder à jamais enfouis les
   secrets de cette belle endormie. Des recherches menées sur ce site,
   voici ce qu'Orgueil nous révèle.

   ​

   Escalier et passage voûté du Château d'Orgueil.

   Le contexte historique

--
   s'opposent aux Cathares, ensuite sévit la Guerre de cent ans (de 1337 à
   1453) opposant le royaume de France à celui d'Angleterre. Le Quercy
   situé aux limites des deux royaumes a été particulièrement touché.
   Orgueil tout spécialement puisque c'est son engagement aux côtés de
   l'Angleterre qui précipita à jamais cette cité dans l'oubli : les
   seigneurs d'Orgueil étaient des partisans actifs de leur duc, roi
   d'Angleterre et duc d'Aquitaine.

   Vue du site d'Orgueil

Payssière d'Orgueil

   Fouilles de 1970

--
   l'Aquitaine au pays Bordelais, elle était ainsi une route stratégique
   pour les envahisseurs mais aussi une artère vitale pour l'échange de
   marchandises et de biens.
   Le site d'Orgueil a dû jouir pleinement de cet avantage, en établissant
   des péages qui auraient pu être une source de fort enrichissement pour
   la cité.

--


   Comme aucune occupation du site n'est observée suite à sa désertion au
   XIVe siècle, éboulis et végétation retirés, Orgueil livre d'emblée ses
   secrets. Sous les yeux ébahis de ses explorateurs, Orgueil,
   l'énigmatique cité moyenâgeuse ressuscite. Au cours de ce voyage dans
   le temps, différentes constructions, objets du quotidien et pièces de
   monnaie révèlent les us et coutumes de ses habitants.
--
   cité désignés comme " barri " par le texte des coutumes. Une zone
   d'expansion datant elle de la fin du XIIIe et moitié du XIVe siècle,
   semble se trouver à l'ouest du ruisseau qui par résurgence alimentait
   Orgueil. Murs dégagés, mobiliers et objets retrouvés témoigne en faveur
   d'un habitat résidentiel et artisanal (un quartier de potiers y a été
   découvert).


   Orgueil semble être une cité plutôt riche. Parmi l'important mobilier
   métallique et céramique mis au jour, figurent, des pièces de monnaie
   dont des deniers en argent remontant au IXe ou Xe siècle, une salière
   d'étain et de plomb magnifiquement travaillée, des éperons, des
--

Tête sculptée sur une céramique vernissée

   Les coutumes d'Orgueil

   ​

   Retrouvé parmi les archives du département du Lot, ce manuscrit établit
   les droits et les devoirs des seigneurs et des villageois de la
   juridiction d'Orgueil dont dépendent l'église de Cabanac, de Mauroux,
   de Lacapelle et de Touzac. Il est en fait une traduction du XVIIIe
   siècle du document originel de 1271, rédigé en occitan.


   Ces coutumes sont octroyées par " les nobles barons seigneurs d'Orgueil
   " qui sont au nombre de six : deux étaient membres de la famille
   Gourdon et quatre de la famille d'Orgueil, elle même issue de Gourdon,
   l'une des plus anciennes du Quercy.


   A la lecture de ce document il apparaît que le bourg d'Orgueil devait
   être relativement important, puisque sa communauté villageoise était
   représentée par 6 de ses membres, réélus annuellement. Ces six consuls
   n'étant ni bourgeois, ni seigneur. Un juge, choisi par le seigneur,
--
   développement de leur activité professionnelle. En cette moitié du
   XIIIe siècle ces avantages octroyés par les seigneurs, leur
   permettaient de rendre leur cité attractive. C'est ainsi que le nouvel
   habitant d'Orgueil était exempté de toute charge et avait le droit de
   choisir son propre seigneur ; ce texte affirme même qu'un habitant
   désireux de quitter la juridiction était protégé, lui et ses biens.

--

   A l'époque les principaux lieux de vie populaires en dehors du château
   fortifié étaient l'église, le cimetière, le marché et le moulin. Hormis
   le moulin, à Orgueil, les quelques fouilles et sondages effectués n'ont
   pas permis de localiser clairement ces endroits incontournables de la
   vie médiévale.

--
   Comme les églises n'étaient pas toujours situées dans le castrum, on
   suppose que c'est la chapelle de Cabanac qui accueillait les cérémonies
   liturgiques et autres distractions plus profanes des citoyens
   d'Orgueil. A cette époque, l'église en dehors de sa vocation cultuelle
   est aussi un lieu de rassemblement couvert abritant en son sein les
   assemblées, les fêtes et les veillées.


   Si " le village des morts " (cimetière) n'a pas été découvert, le
   marché dont il est souvent question dans les coutumes d'Orgueil, aurait
   pu être établi sur le rebord du plateau maurouxois, à proximité de
   l'église de Cabanac, un endroit encore désigné aujourd'hui comme "
   mercadiel " ou " foirail ". Ceci est une hypothèse plausible puisque
--
   en nouveaux faubourgs.


   La vie à Orgueil paraissait alors bien pérenne, rien ne présageait de
   l'imminence de sa chute irrévocable, si ce n'est une guerre, la fameuse
   guerre de cent ans, opposant les royaumes de France et d'Angleterre.
   Les seigneurs d'Orgueil, fervents défenseurs du Duc d'Aquitaine, roi
   d'Angleterre, menaient fréquemment pour son compte, divers actes de
   pillage et de banditisme dans la région. En 1348, l'un des seigneurs
   d'Orgueil participe à la mise à sac de la bastide royale de Montcabrier
   et à la prise du castrum de Puy-l'Evêque.


--


   Ce qui se fît tant et si bien, qu'à la fin du XIV e siècle la place
   d'Orgueil apparaît parmi la liste des " deserta destructura desemperata
   ", lieu déserté et abandonné, sur lequel la dîme n'était plus prélevée.
   Après la destruction violente de la cité, il semblerait que ses
   habitants quittèrent définitivement Orgueil, trouvant refuge dans les
   bourgs de Mauroux, de Cabanac et de Touzac.

La légende d'Orgueil

   En ce temps là vivait en face de la cité d'Orgueil, sur la rive droite
   du fleuve, un vieux baron fortement enquiquiné par la présence de ces
   anglais qui venaient tuer à sa barbe presque tout le gibier. Alors il
   se jura, sur sa foi de preux chevalier que, dans quinze jours, ceux-là
--
   Disposant de peu d'hommes et peu confiant en l'intrépidité des gens du
   pays, le Baron, M. du Fossat, désirait s'introduire par ruse dans la
   place. Pour cela il se servit de son piqueur qui avait eu la bonne idée
   d'avoir élu pour dame de cœur, la femme d'un anglais d'Orgueil qui lui
   ouvrait la poterne du chemin de l'abîme, plus souvent qu'il ne l'aurait
   fallu pour la sûreté du fort.

--


   Le Baron obtint d'autant plus facilement la reddition du fort qu'il
   prît soin de prendre en otage la femme du chef de garnison d'Orgueil,
   M. Pudding ! Retenue par le piqueur dans le souterrain aux poudres, qui
   se tenait soit disant prêt à allumer la mèche qui aurait pu faire
   partir en fumée l'intégralité du château.
--
   Ce fut ainsi que le lendemain matin du jour de Noël 1450, grâce aux
   intrigues d'un piqueur et à un troupeau de chèvres, les bonnes gens des
   environs furent fort surpris de voir flotter la bannière du Fossat sur
   les murs d'Orgueil.


   Chronique rapportée en 1920 lors d'une partie de chasse menée entre
   deux cadurciens. Cette histoire fut narrée par un hardi braconnier de
   Cahors, descendant du piqueur à qui le baron demanda aide en 1450 de
   faire bouter les anglais hors de la cité d'Orgueil.
   Mairie de Mauroux et salle des fêtes

MAIRIE</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-59">
<text>               o  L'autorité
               o  Le milieu
               o  La concupiscence
               o  L'orgueil
               o  Le désespoir
               o  La tyrannie

--
          +  Mystère de Jésus


             Dossier thématique : L’orgueil dans les Pensées


   Sur l’orgueil, l’édition GEF renvoie à Bossuet, Traité de la
   Concupiscence, ch. XXIII.

   L’orgueil est capable de se satisfaire par une sorte de ruse, qui
   consiste à se sacrifier en apparence, pourvu que ce sacrifice même
   fasse l’objet de l’estime des hommes.

   Laf. 628, Sel. 521. Du désir d’être estimé de ceux avec qui on est.
   L’orgueil nous tient d’une possession si naturelle au milieu de nos
   misères, erreur, etc. Nous perdons encore la vie avec joie pourvu qu’on
   en parle.

   Ceux qui ignorent la religion chrétienne et la personne du Christ ne
   peuvent manquer de tomber dans l’orgueil, parce qu’ils ignorent la
   corruption de la nature humaine : voir Fausseté des autres religions 6
   (Laf. 208, Sel. 240), Sans ces divines connaissances qu’ont pu faire
   les hommes sinon ou s’élever dans le sentiment intérieur qui leur reste
   de leur grandeur passée, ou s’abattre dans la vue de leur faiblesse
   présente ? Car ne voyant pas la vérité entière ils n’ont pu arriver à
   une parfaite vertu, les uns considérant la nature comme incorrompue,
   les autres comme irréparable, ils n’ont pu fuir ou l’orgueil ou la
   paresse, qui sont les deux sources de tous les vices, puisqu’ils ne
   peuvent sinon ou s’y abandonner par lâcheté, ou en sortir par
   l’orgueil. Car s’ils connaissaient l’excellence de l’homme, ils en
   ignorent la corruption, de sorte qu’ils évitaient bien la paresse, mais
   ils se perdaient dans la superbe, et s’ils reconnaissent l’infirmité de
   la nature ils en ignorent la dignité, de sorte qu’ils pouvaient bien
   éviter la vanité, mais c’était en se précipitant dans le désespoir.

   Seule la religion chrétienne évite de faire du renoncement à l’orgueil
   matière d’une sorte d’orgueil nouveau. Voir Morale chrétienne 4 (Laf.
   354, Sel. 386). Il n’y a point de doctrine plus propre à l’homme que
   celle‑là qui l’instruit de sa double capacité de recevoir et de perdre
   la grâce à cause du double péril où il est toujours exposé de désespoir
   ou d’orgueil.

   Fausseté des autres religions 14 (Laf. 216, Sel. 249). La vraie
   religion enseigne nos devoirs, nos impuissances, orgueil et
   concupiscence, et les remèdes, humilité, mortification.

   A P. R. 1 (Laf. 149, Sel. 182). Quelle religion nous enseignera donc à
   guérir l’orgueil et la concupiscence ? Quelle religion enfin nous
   enseignera notre bien, nos devoirs, les faiblesses qui nous en
   détournent, la cause de ces faiblesses, les remèdes qui les peuvent
   guérir, et le moyen d’obtenir ces remèdes. Toutes les autres religions
   ne l’ont pu. Voyons ce que fera la sagesse de Dieu.

   Excellence 5 (Laf. 192, Sel. 225). La connaissance de Dieu sans celle
   de sa misère fait l’orgueil. La connaissance de sa misère sans celle de
   Dieu fait le désespoir. La connaissance de Jésus‑Christ fait le milieu
   parce que nous y trouvons, et Dieu, et notre misère.

   Morale chrétienne 2 (Laf. 352, Sel. 384). La misère persuade le
   désespoir. L’orgueil persuade la présomption. L’Incarnation montre à
   l’homme la grandeur de sa misère par la grandeur du remède qu’il a
   fallu.

   La spiritualité chrétienne centrée sur le Christ, débarrasse l’homme de
   l’orgueil. Voir Fausseté des religions 10 (Laf. 212, Sel. 245).
   Jésus‑Christ est un Dieu dont on s’approche sans orgueil, et sous
   lequel on s’abaisse sans désespoir.

   Morale chrétienne 8 (Laf. 358, Sel. 390). Avec combien peu d’orgueil un
   chrétien se croit-il uni à Dieu ! Avec combien peu d’abjection
   s’égale-t-il aux vers de la terre ! La belle manière de recevoir la vie
   et la mort, les biens et les maux !

   Pensée n° 15P (Laf. 931, Sel. 759). Et je bénis tous les jours de ma
   vie mon Rédempteur, qui les a mis en moi et qui d’un homme plein de
   faiblesse, de misère, de concupiscence, d’orgueil et d’ambition a fait
   un homme exempt de tous ces maux par la force de sa grâce, à laquelle
   toute la gloire en est due, n’ayant de moi que la misère et l’erreur.

   Laf. 774, Sel. 638. Comme les deux sources de nos péchés sont l’orgueil
   et la paresse, Dieu nous a découvert deux qualités en lui pour les
   guérir : sa miséricorde et sa justice. Le propre de la justice est
   d’abattre l’orgueil, quelque saintes que soient les œuvres : et non
   intres in judicium, etc., et le propre de la miséricorde est de
   combattre la paresse en invitant aux bonnes œuvres, selon ce passage :
   la miséricorde de dieu invite à pénitence, et cet autre des Ninivites :
--
   nature semble avoir fait la même chose par ces deux infinis, naturels
   et moraux : car nous aurons toujours du dessus et du dessous, de plus
   habiles et de moins habiles, de plus élevés et de plus misérables, pour
   abaisser notre orgueil, et relever notre abjection.

   On trouve dans les Pensées un fragment dans lequel Pascal tente de
   définir ce qu’est la juste part d’un orgueil bien réglé, qui ne serait
   pas vicieux : voir Pensée n° 17R (Laf. 933, Sel. 761).

   Concupiscence de la chair, concupiscence des yeux, orgueil, etc.

   Il y a trois ordres de choses. La chair, l’esprit, la volonté.

--

   Dans les spirituels, la curiosité proprement.

   Dans la sagesse l’orgueil proprement.

   Ce n’est pas qu’on ne puisse être glorieux pour le bien ou pour les
   connaissances, mais ce n’est pas le lieu de l’orgueil, car en accordant
   à un homme qu’il est savant on ne laissera pas de le convaincre qu’il a
   tort d’être superbe.</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-6">
<text>   St Jean Népomucène Neumann

   Les textes de la messe
   Accueil » Glossaire » O » Orgueil

Orgueil

   Un des sept péchés capitaux : Orgueil, envie, colère, intempérance,
   paresse, luxure, avarice. L’orgueil est le refus fondamental de
   reconnaître ses limites et en particulier de reconnaître ce que l’on
   doit à Dieu et aux autres. Les Pères de l’Eglise voient dans l’orgueil
   l’origine de tout péché, aussi bien du genre humain (péché originel)
   que de chaque pécheur, il est à la racine de tout mal. Reconnaître que
   nous devons absolument tout à Dieu, qui nous a tout donné et qui nous</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-60">
<text>Un article a été ajouté à votre panier.

   Voir mon panier (BUTTON) poursuivre mes achats
   Orgueil &amp; préjugés
   Extrait gratuit

Orgueil &amp; préjugés (édition collector)

Jane Austen

--
   lecteur en quête de romantisme. Elizabeth Bennet, la pétillante, et Mr
   Darcy, le vaniteux, ne cessent de se quereller et de se taquiner pour
   mieux tomber amoureux l'un de l'autre.
   Véritable comédie de moeurs, Orgueil et Préjugés met en scène une
   intrigue sentimentale riche en rebondissements, où les personnages
   hauts en couleur sont toujours dépeints avec humour et ironie pour
   notre plus grand plaisir. (BUTTON) Lire la suite (BUTTON) Fermer
--
   ainsi que celle de sa soeur Cassandra, dont elle restera très proche
   jusqu'à sa mort, se fera principalement dans le domaine familial. Elle
   se met à l'écriture de parodies sentimentales avant de se consacrer aux
   romans 'Northanger Abbey', 'Raison et sentiment' et 'Orgueil et
   préjugés' entre 1795 et 1798. En 1801, la famille Austen s'installe à
   Bath et quatre ans plus tard, le père de Jane décède : l'auteur ne se
   mariera pas, tout comme sa soeur Cassandra, et consacrera sa vie à
   l'éducation de ses neveux et nièces. 'Raison et sentiment', 'Orgueil et
   préjugés' et 'Mansfield park' sont publiés successivement en 1811, 1813
   et 1814. Elle laisse derrière elle un roman inachevé, 'Sanditon',
   emportée par la phtisie à l'âge de 41 ans. L'auteur ne connut pas le</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-61">
<text>   #CJD » Flux CJD » Flux des commentaires CJD » Stratégie du conflit,
   règle n°4 : petitesse et orgueil Flux des commentaires alternate
   alternate alternate

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-NX79RH5
--
   Fermer ce champ de recherche.

   Accueil – Articles Dirigeant – Développement du dirigeant – Stratégie
   du conflit, règle n°4 : petitesse et orgueil

Stratégie du conflit, règle n°4 : petitesse et orgueil

     * Développement du dirigeant
     * 10/22/2020</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-62">
<text>     *

   Début du contenu
   Mesrine : l'orgueil et le sang

Mesrine : l'orgueil et le sang

   (Ajouter à mes favoris)
   (Partager)
--

     *

Mesrine : l'orgueil et le sang – bande-annonce
       Jacques Mesrine est devenu dans les années 1970 un personnage
       unique dans les annales du crime moderne. L'auteur de documentaires
       d'enquête Stéphane Berthomet débroussaille le passé du criminel
--
       questions sont au cœur de la quête pour comprendre ce personnage
       sombre qui ne semblait vivre que pour le crime et la lumière des
       médias. Pour tenter d'y répondre, Stéphane Berthomet revient en
       arrière pour découvrir la personnalité déjà orgueilleuse et
       bouillonnante du jeune Jacques Mesrine.
       (Écouter)
       Durée de 35 minutes35 min
--
       Mesrine se comporte de façon de plus en plus erratique. Il continue
       cependant ses coups d'éclat, comme lorsqu'il enlève l'ancien
       banquier Henri Lelièvre avant de s'en prendre coup sur coup à un
       juge et à un journaliste. Mais son orgueil le pousse toujours plus
       loin. Ses actions sont de plus en plus guidées par la vengeance, ce
       qui inquiète même certains de ses complices. Mesrine avouera
       lui-même avoir franchi un point de non-retour.</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-63">
<text>
     * Accueil
     * Les événements
     * L'orgueil des philosophes

   Image de couverture
   Colloque

L'orgueil des philosophes

   Organisées par l'Ecole doctorale de philosophie (Paris 1) et l'ED SHS
   (Université de Lille) ainsi que par les laboratoires HALMA UMR 8164
--
   Broca, salle A701), et sur Zoom au lien
   suivant : https://bit.ly/3kRng6y.

   Résumé : Le thème de l'orgueil des philosophes est un lieu commun de la
   littérature chrétienne de filiation paulinienne et augustinienne, qui
   voit dans la philosophie l’entreprise démesurée d’une quête de la
   vérité reposant sur les seules forces de la nature humaine. La question
   se pose alors des rapports possibles entre un orgueil des philosophes,
   comme motivation et effet éventuels de leur implication en philosophie,
   et d’un orgueil de la philosophie, soit l’imputation de ce vice à
   l’ambition philosophique elle-même. Ces journées d’études visent
   d’abord à explorer ce thème classique dans ses reprises littéraires et
   philosophiques, anciennes et modernes. Il s’agit également, plus
   largement, d’envisager l’orgueil selon les philosophes, c’est-à-dire la
   manière dont l’orgueil, la vanité et l’humilité ont pu être réfléchis
   par les philosophes dans la vie morale et intellectuelle. Le
   questionnement se décline alors en deux sens : l’orgueil comme vice
   moral et comme vice épistémique. On cherchera enfin à dégager quelques
   résonances contemporaines de ce questionnement sur l’humilité comme
   vertu épistémique dans le cadre du renouveau de l’éthique des vertus
--
   Matinée (9h10-12h45) Vérité et humilité dans l’Antiquité tardive et le
   Moyen-Âge
   Anne-Claire Lozier, (doctorante, université de Lille, HALMA) : Logique
   de l'orgueil et via humilitatis chez Augustin
   Sébastien Morlet (Paris IV, OM-ACT) : L’orgueil des philosophes chez
   les apologistes grecs de l’Antiquité
   Christian Trottmann (Université de Tours, CESR) : Orgueil des
   philosophes et humilité chez Bernard de Clairvaux
   Iacopo Costa (Paris I, LEM) : L’orgueil dans la psychologie
   postlapsaire de Thomas d’Aquin
   Après-midi (14h30 17h) Reprises et déplacements modernes
   Yoen Qian-Laurent (doctorant, Paris IV, MHTA) : En finir avec la
--
   Laetitia Simonetta (docteur, IHRIM) : De l’infériorité du sentiment
   Samedi 18 mars 2023
   Matinée (9h30-12h45) : La philosophie humiliée
   Joséphine Jamet (doctorante, Paris IV, MHTA) : Vrai orgueil et faux
   orgueil selon Kierkegaard
   Pauline Riou (doctorante, Paris IV, MHTA) la question du système chez
   Rosenzweig : ultime orgueil ou forme ultime de la philosophie ?
   Pierre-Alban Gutkin-Guinfolleau (docteur, ICP, RCS-DR) : Le motif de
   l’humiliation de l’ego chez Jankélévitch
   Benoît Berthelier (doctorant, Paris I, EXeCO)  « Démolir l'édifice de
   ton orgueil ». Sur le motif wittgensteinien de la fin de la philosophie
   Après-midi (14h30-17h) Prolongements contemporains
   Ostiane Lazrak (doctorante, Paris I, EXeCO) : L’humble et le magnanime.
   Sur le problème de l’humilité dans la philosophie d’Alasdair MacIntyre.</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-7">
<text>    1. Actualité
    2. Religion

Comment lutter contre l’orgueil ?

   Les tentations spirituelles (3/5). Pour les pères de l’Église,
   l’orgueil, cette tentation de la comparaison aux autres et à Dieu, est
   à la racine de tous les péchés. Comment y remédier ? Une autre
   tentation guette, celle de la fausse humilité !
     * Clémence Houdaille,
--
     * Partager sur Twitter
       Twitter

   Orgueilleuse, moi ? Jamais ! Tel est le paradoxe de cette maladie
   spirituelle, catégorisée comme un péché capital, qui nous fait nous
   sentir supérieurs aux autres, y compris en humilité… Alors que dès que
   l’on prétend à l’humilité, on est déjà dans l’orgueil. Le pharisien de
   la parabole (Lc, 18, 11) en est l’illustration parfaite : « Mon Dieu,
   je te rends grâce parce que je ne suis pas comme les autres hommes –
   ils sont voleurs, injustes, adultères –, ou encore comme ce publicain.
--
   ! »

   Proche de la vanité, au point que la plupart des pères de l’Église
   assimilaient les deux notions, l’orgueil est, pour saint Jean
   Chrysostome, « le mal culminant de l’homme et la racine et la source de
   tous les péchés du monde ». Rien de moins. Saint Jean Cassien enfonce
   le clou : « Quel grand mal est donc l’orgueil, pour mériter d’avoir
   comme adversaire non un ange, ni d’autres vertus opposées, mais Dieu
   Lui-même ! » En effet, « l’orgueil s’attaque à Dieu en personne »,
   ajoute-t-il.

   Ce « sommet de la vaine gloire », comme le décrit le théologien
   orthodoxe Jean-Claude Larchet (1), est un risque pour chacun. Mais tout
   le monde ne succombe pas à cette tentation, nuance le psychanalyste
   Jean-Guilhem Xerri (2). « L’orgueil est une tentation qui touche le
   psychisme, explique-t-il. C’est souvent la conjonction entre une
   personne, avec sa propre structure psychique, un certain environnement,
   et sa liberté, qui fait que cette personne va tomber dans l’orgueil. »

   L’orgueil se décline dans le fait de se mesurer aux autres. « Dans
   cette élévation, l’orgueilleux s’estime et s’admire lui-même, se
   félicite et se loue intérieurement », décrit encore Jean-Claude
   Larchet. Il peut s’agir d’un orgueil pur, le fait d’être convaincu
   d’être supérieur aux autres. Mais aussi d’une attitude compensatoire :
   une recherche de renommée et d’estime, un besoin de compenser des
   blessures affectives ou un manque de confiance en soi.
--
   nous regarder », explique-t-elle. « Vouloir reprendre confiance en soi
   est une bonne chose, souligne de son côté Jean-Guilhem Xerri. Le faire
   en essayant de se hisser au-dessus des autres n’est pas idéal. Car à
   force d’avoir un comportement orgueilleux, on s’identifie à ce
   comportement, et on le devient. »

   C’est alors que l’attitude devient problématique. Les symptômes de
   l’orgueil se manifestent : excès de confiance en soi, autosatisfaction,
   suffisance, arrogance, certitude d’avoir raison, autojustification…
   L’orgueilleux « fait étalage de tout ce qu’il a et s’efforce de
   paraître plus qu’il n’est en réalité », décrivait saint Basile au IV
   siècle. « Arrogant, infatué et content de soi, plein d’assurance et de
   confiance en lui-même », ajoute Jean-Claude Larchet, il a aussi la
--
   raison, d’où procèdent la manie de se justifier ainsi que l’esprit de
   contradiction, mais aussi la volonté d’enseigner et de commander ».

   L’orgueil rend celui qu’il affecte aveugle à ses propres défauts, lui
   fait refuser a priori toute critique et haïr tout reproche et toute
   réprimande, et lui rend intolérable d’être commandé et de devoir se
   soumettre à qui que ce soit. Il se révèle parfois dans une certaine
   agressivité, une ironie acerbe, une aigreur dans les réponses aux
   questions d’autrui, une animosité générale… La volonté d’avoir raison,
   l’attitude du donneur de leçon sont autant de déclinaisons de
   l’orgueil, tout comme le fait de s’attribuer des mérites, et de rejeter
   la responsabilité de ses échecs sur les autres.

   Mais cette tentation peut aussi revêtir les atours de l’humilité. « La
   fausse humilité se retrouve dans des attitudes confites en dévotion »,
   explique encore Françoise Le Corre, autrice d’un livre sur le sujet
   (3). La tentation de l’orgueil peut toucher des personnes très
   discrètes, qui « attendent qu’on vienne les chercher, conscientes de
   leur valeur », ajoute-t-elle.

--
   Très-haut » qui cause la chute de Lucifer, dans Isaïe (chapitre 14).
   Et, selon Jean Chrysostome, cette même tentation touche, par
   l’influence du diable, les hommes attirés par une attitude
   orgueilleuse, comme « un refus du secours divin et la présomptueuse
   confiance en ses propres forces ».

   Comment résister à la tentation de l’orgueil, ou en sortir lorsqu’on y
   a succombé ? Une première étape, la plus difficile peut-être, est de
   prendre conscience de cette maladie spirituelle et de ses conséquences
   en soi. « On peut commencer par s’interroger, conseille Jean-Guilhem
--
   symptômes, s’en remettre à son propre regard, mais aussi au regard d’un
   proche dont on est sûr de la bienveillance et de la sincérité, regarder
   en quoi les autres me sont supérieurs, accueillir les critiques sans
   surréagir, sont autant de démarches anti orgueil.

   Se rappeler de ses échecs, et se rappeler combien on dépend des autres
   aide aussi. « Quelqu’un qui réussit bien dans sa carrière peut penser
--
   Xerri.

   Demander de l’aide, et reconnaître ce besoin d’aide permet aussi de ne
   plus se sentir au-dessus de l’autre, et libère de l’orgueil. «
   Reconnaître que tout est reçu, et tout est grâce, que l’homme n’est pas
   un créateur de talent, mais un gérant des talents reçus est un remède
   », poursuit encore le psychanalyste qui conseille la prière du cœur : «
--

   LIRE AUSSI :

   → L’orgueil, un des sept péchés capitaux

   → Vouloir être saint, est-ce de l’orgueil ?

   → Les sept péchés capitaux : symptômes et traitements</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-8">
<text>
   Email catcher

                                    orgueil

   définitiondéf.synonymessyn.combinaisonscombi.exemplesex.17^e siècle17^e
   s.

Définition

Définition de orgueil ​​​ Votre navigateur ne prend pas en charge audio. nom
masculin

   Opinion très avantageuse qu'une personne a de sa propre valeur aux
   dépens de la considération due à autrui. ➙ arrogance, présomption,
   suffisance. Être bouffi d'orgueil. (sens positif) ➙ amour-propre,
   fierté.
   L'orgueil de : la satisfaction d'amour-propre que donne (qqn, qqch.).
   ➙ fierté. Tirer (grand) orgueil de (➙ s'enorgueillir). Ce qui motive
   cette fierté.

   définitiondéf.synonymessyn.combinaisonscombi.exemplesex.17^e siècle17^e
--

Synonymes

Synonymes de orgueil nom masculin

   arrogance, autosatisfaction, dédain, fatuité, hauteur, morgue,
   présomption, prétention, suffisance, vanité, puant (familier),
--

Combinaisons

Mots qui s'emploient fréquemment avec orgueil

verbe + orgueil

   blesser + orgueil
   concevoir + orgueil
   flatter + orgueil
   nourrir + orgueil
   pécher + par orgueil
   satisfaire + orgueil

orgueil + adjectif

   orgueil blessé
   orgueil démesuré
   orgueil extrême
   orgueil féminin
   orgueil humilié
   orgueil immense
   orgueil incommensurable
   orgueil indomptable
   orgueil national
   orgueil patriotique

   définitiondéf.synonymessyn.combinaisonscombi.exemplesex.17^e siècle17^e
   s.

Exemples

Phrases avec le mot orgueil

   Je rentre en moi-même, je vois mon égoïsme, mon orgueil, ma folie, et
   je pardonne leurs défauts aux autres.Émile Zola (1840-1902)
   Dans cette fierté dont vous parlez, il pourrait y avoir de
   l'orgueil.Ouest-France, Édith GESLIN, 19/05/2017
   Étude des pensées de souffrance induites par le facteur mental
   orgueil.Ouest-France, 16/01/2014
   Le mal a son orgueil comme le bien.Céleste de Chabrillan (1824-1909)
   Trois autres péchés capitaux sont à venir après l'été : la paresse en
   septembre, l'orgueil en janvier et la colère en mars.Ouest-France,
   28/05/2021
   Il est vrai que, par orgueil, j'exprimais peu mes idées.Stendhal
   (1783-1842)
   Il n'y a bien sûr pas que des perdants dans le jeu de la mondialisation
   ; il y a aussi des gagnants gonflés d'orgueil.Europarl
   Elle lui permet de mettre en évidence les ravages mortifères de
   l'orgueil.XVIIe siècle, 2002, Laurence Plazenet (Cairn.info)
   Elle admire son idéalisme, sa sincérité, sa passion et son orgueil,
   qui, confesse-t-elle, compensent ses propres doutes, sa lâcheté et son
   hypocrisie.Études Germaniques, 2015, Sonja Vanderlinden (Cairn.info)
   Conscient de sa supériorité, comment l'homme n'en éprouverait-il pas de
   l'orgueil (ou à tout le moins, dans un vocabulaire moins théologique,
   de l'amour propre) ?Les études philosophiques, 2003, Mikhaïl Xifaras
   (Cairn.info)
   Cette vanité ou orgueil théorique du détective entre en collision avec
   l'effectivité du réel.Bulletin Hispanique, 2019, Raphaël Estève
   (Cairn.info)
   On ne joue pas ainsi avec la paix, par excès d'orgueil ou insuffisance
   de préparation.Ouest-France, 02/06/2016
   Au commencement, il y a l'amour ; à l'autre bout, l'ambition,
   l'orgueil.Céleste de Chabrillan (1824-1909)
   Avec son orgueil d'artiste et la conscience du pouvoir qu'il exerce sur
   son public ?Willem Geertrudus Cornelis Byvanck (1848-1925)
   S'il s'est lancé ce défi, ce n'est pas uniquement par volonté de
   dépassement de soi ou par orgueil de sportif.Ouest-France, 20/07/2018
   Le président attend de la part de ces joueurs une réaction
   d'orgueil.Ouest-France, 09/11/2019
   Et même si c'est elle qui a créé l'entreprise, elle accepte son choix
   et ravale son orgueil.Capital, 02/03/2016, « Quand l’entreprise est une
   affaire de famille »
   Chacun est dans sa vérité, ce que l'auteur appelle la vanité,
   l'orgueil.Dialogue, 2007 (Cairn.info)
   Elles avaient toutes deux un diable de petit orgueil.Romain Rolland
   (1866-1944)
   Dans les temps anciens, l'orgueil ne pouvait guère soutenir les peuples
   faibles.Le Monde Juif, 1951, Jules Margoline (Cairn.info)
   Afficher toutRéduire

--

Dictionnaire universel de Furetière (1690)

Définition ancienne de ORGUEIL subst. masc.

   Fierté, arrogance, superbe, sotte gloire &amp; presomption, le premier des
   sept pechez capitaux. C'est ce peché qui a precipité les mauvais Anges
   dans l'abysme, qui eurent l'orgueil de se vouloir comparer à Dieu.
   L'orgueil de Nembrod luy fit entreprendre la construction de la Tour de
   Babel. Dieu punit l'orgueil de Nabuchodonosor. Cet homme est enflé
   d'orgueil, bouffi d'orgueil. La grandeur inspire un noble orgueil qui
   empêche de faire des bassesses.

   Un noble orgueuil m'apprend qu'estant fille de Roy,
--
   Corneille dans le Cid. Ce mot vient du Grec orgilos, formé de orgao qui
   signifie turgeo.

   ORGUEIL, en termes d'Artisans, est une pierre ou billot qu'on met sous
   le levier, &amp; qui est le centre de son mouvement, soit en levant, soit
   en baissant. Nicod dit que les Ouvriers luy ont donné ce nom, à cause
   que cette pierre fait mouvoir une masse cent fois plus pesante, &amp;
--
   Mathematiciens.

   On dit proverbialement, quand on prend un habit neuf au lieu d'un qui
   est fort usé, qu'on ne le prend pas par orgueil. On dit aussi à un
   homme de neant qui veut maistriser les autres. D'où vous vient cet
   orgueil ?

   Ces définitions du XVII^e siècle, qui montrent l'évolution de la langue
   et de l'orthographe françaises au cours des siècles, doivent être</text>
</page> §
<page="fr2-9">
<text>
     * Texte 1

orgueil

   (BUTTON)
     * Accueil
--

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

ORGUEIL

   Prononciation : (gueil se prononce gueuil) nom masculin
   Étymologie : x^e siècle, orgolz. Issu du francique *urgoli, « fierté ».
   1.  Sentiment trop favorable que l’on a de sa valeur, estime excessive
   de soi qui porte à agir en se plaçant au-dessus des autres. L’orgueil
   est le premier des sept péchés capitaux. Un orgueil insensé. Être
   enflé, gonflé, bouffi, pétri d’orgueil. Rabattre l’orgueil de
   quelqu’un. Par extension. L’orgueil de la naissance, qu’inspirent à
   quelqu’un ses origines.
   2.  En bonne part. Fierté légitime qui éloigne de toute sorte de
   bassesse ; sentiment qu’on a de sa dignité. L’orgueil de ses actions.
   Un refus plein d’orgueil. Un cœur maternel empli d’orgueil.
   ▪  Expr. Être l’orgueil de, faire l’orgueil de, être un sujet de fierté
   légitime pour. Ce héros est l’orgueil de la France.
   Vous pouvez cliquer sur n’importe quel mot pour naviguer dans le
   dictionnaire.

--
     * orgiastique, adj.
     * orgie, n. f.
     * orgue, n. m.
     * orgueil, n. m.
     * orgueilleusement, adv.
     * orgueilleux, -euse [I], adj.
     * orgueilleux [II], n. m. [5^e édition]
     * orichalque, n. m.
     * oriel, n. m.
     * orient, n. m.
--

HISTOIRE DU MOT

     * orgueil, n. m. [1^re édition]
     * orgueil, n. m. [2^e édition]
     * orgueil, n. m. [3^e édition]
     * orgueil, n. m. [4^e édition]
     * orgueil, n. m. [5^e édition]
     * orgueil, n. m. [6^e édition]
     * orgueil, n. m. [7^e édition]
     * orgueil, n. m. [8^e édition]
     * orgueil, n. m.

HISTORIQUE DE CONSULTATION

     * orgueil, n. m.

     * Académie française
     * Aide en ligne</text>
</page> §
</lang>
<lang="tr">
<page="tr-10">
<text>
    1. Anasayfa
    2. Kitaplar
    3. Gurur ve Önyargı

   Kitap E-Kitap Sesli Kitap
   Gurur ve Önyargı
   Çeviri
   Işıl Önder
   ISBN
   9789750524509
   2. baskı - Mayıs 2020
   398 sayfa
   Gurur ve Önyargı
   ISBN
   9789750525629
   Gurur ve Önyargı
   ISBN
   9789180133791
   İletişim Web Satış Fiyatı
--
   (BUTTON) SESLİ KİTAP SATIN AL
   Storytel

   Gurur ve Önyargı

Jane Austen

   Jane Austen’ın yirmi bir yaşındayken yazdığı Gurur ve Önyargı,
   nesillerdir özgün kalan, aşka ve değişen izlenimlere dair keyifli bir
   hikâye.
     * eser hakkında
--
   Yazar ve dönem kronolojisi,
   Kitaba dair görsellerle.

   Jane Austen’ın yirmi bir yaşındayken yazdığı Gurur ve Önyargı,
   nesillerdir özgün kalan, aşka ve değişen izlenimlere dair keyifli bir
   hikâye.

--
   karşıdır. Balo salonlarından nehir kenarı pikniklerine, taşra
   evlerinden ihtişamlı malikânelere uzanan hikâyede izlenimler ve
   duygular beklenmedik şekillerde değişecektir. Austen’ın “biricik
   çocuğum” diye andığı Gurur ve Önyargı, toprak sahibi taşralı sınıfın
   yaşam biçimini, görgü kurallarını ve dedikodularını eşsiz bir mizah
   duygusu ile ele alıyor.

--
   rağmen hem kitaplarını sürekli elden geçirdiği, hem de babası ve
   kardeşleri aracılığıyla yayıncılara gönderdiğinde reddedildiği için
   eserleri geç yayımlanabilmiş bir yazardır. Hayatı boyunca yalnız dört
   eseri okurlara ulaşmıştır: Sağduyu ve Duyarlılık (1811), Gurur ve
   Önyargı (1813), Mansfield Park (1814) ve Emma (1815). Austen, ufacık
   bir fildişi parçası üzerine küçük bir fırçayla resim yapmaya benzettiği
   hikâyeciliğine güven duymasa da, ismini geçirmediği kitapları çok
--
   anlattığı Sanayi Devrimi öncesi “Regency dönemi” hayatı, 19. yüzyılın
   hızlı değişimi içinde geride çok az şey bırakarak yok oldu. Bu yüzden
   romanları, kaybolan bir dünyadan geriye kalan tatlı andaçlar gibidir.
   Kitabın Adı            Gurur ve Önyargı
   Orijinal Adı           Pride and Prejudice
   ISBN                   9789750524509
   Kapak                  Marcus C. Stone, “Bekleyen”, 1875
--
   Anton Pavloviç Çehov
   İletişim Klasikleri dizisinin tüm kitaplarını görmek için tıklayın

   Gurur ve Önyargı
   (BUTTON) Kapat

   © İletişim Yayınları 2024</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-11">
<text>          + Sil

   Maddenin TDV İslâm Ansiklopedisi’ndeki güncel elektronik versiyonuna
   erişmek için: https://islamansiklopedisi.org.tr/gurur
   [rastgele_beyaz.png]

GURUR

   الغرور

--
   [bibl-popup-arrow.png]
   1 bölümden oluşan maddenin 1. bölümüdür. Maddenin TDV İslâm
   Ansiklopedisi’ndeki güncel elektronik versiyonuna erişmek için:
   https://islamansiklopedisi.org.tr/gurur#1
   [part-header-arrow-down.png]
   Müellif:
   MUSTAFA ÇAĞRICI
   GURUR
   Müellif: MUSTAFA ÇAĞRICI
   Web Sitesi: TDV İslâm Ansiklopedisi
   Yayımcı: TDV İslâm Araştırmaları Merkezi
   Baskı Tarihi: 1996
   Erişim Tarihi: 05.01.2024
   Web Adresi:
   https://islamansiklopedisi.org.tr/gurur
   MUSTAFA ÇAĞRICI, "GURUR", TDV İslâm Ansiklopedisi,
   https://islamansiklopedisi.org.tr/gurur (05.01.2024).
   Kopyalama metni

   Sözlükte “aldatma, kandırma; aldanma, kapılma; gaflet, bilgisizlik”
   anlamlarına gelen gurûrun “bâtıl şey” mânasındaki gār kelimesinin
   çoğulu olduğu da ileri sürülmüştür. Ancak yaygın görüşe göre gurur
   tekil bir kelimedir ve “insanın, mânevî ve ahlâkî açıdan değersiz
   sayılan süflî şeylerin cazibesine kapılarak onlarla avunması” demektir.
   Aynı kökten türeyen garûr “aldatan, kandıran” anlamında şeytanı,
--
   “ġrr” md.; Fîrûzâbâdî, el-Ḳāmûsü’l-muḥîṭ, “ġrr” md.; Gazzâlî, III,
   379).

   Kur’ân-ı Kerîm’de gurur ve bu kökten gelen diğer kelimeler yirmi yedi
   âyette geçmektedir. Bu âyetlerin çoğunda gururun “dünyaya kapılma,
   aldanma” mânası ağır basar. Kur’an öğretisine göre, geçiciliği ve
   aldatıcılığı unutularak bir değeri varmış gibi kendisine bağlanılan
   dünya insanların dinleri ve uhrevî hayatları için büyük bir tehlikedir
--
   insanın âhiret mutluluğunun azalmasına yol açacağı düşüncesine
   bağlamaktadır (Mefâtîḥu’l-ġayb, IX, 126-127).

   İslâm düşünce ve ahlâk tarihinde gurur, ayrıntılı bir şekilde ilk defa
   Hâris el-Muhâsibî’nin tasavvufî ahlâkın en eski kaynaklarından olan
   er-Riʿâye li-ḥuḳūḳıllâh adlı eserinde ele alınmıştır. Bu eserin gururla
   aynı anlamı taşıyan “Gırre” başlıklı bölümü, Gazzâlî’nin İḥyâʾ adlı
   eserindeki “Zemmü’l-gurûr” bölümüne hem şekil hem muhteva bakımından
   örnek teşkil etmiştir. Gazzâlî, eserinin kırk temel konusundan biri
   olarak incelediği gururu bir tür bilgisizlik saymıştır. Buna göre bozuk
   ve yanlış bir görüşe dayanarak kendisinin iyi yolda olduğunu savunan
   kişi gurura kapılmıştır. Esasen insanlar farklı derecelerde yanlışlık
   yaptıkları halde kendilerini doğru yolda görürler, böylece gaflet
   içinde aldatıcı bir güven hissi duyarlar. Gazzâlî’nin “Gurura kapılmış
   zümreler” başlığı altında ortaya koyduğu, ilim adamları, ibadet ehli,
   tasavvuf ehli ve servet sahiplerinden oluşan zümrelerle ilgili isabetli
   tahlilleri, İslâm düşünce tarihinde yüksek değerde bir ahlâk ve
   dindarlık eleştirisidir.

   Türkçe’de gurur kelimesi “kendini beğenme, böbürlenme, kibir” mânasında
   kullanılmakta, bu tür duygular taşıyan kimseye de mağrûr denilmektedir
   (bk. KİBİR; UCB).
   BİBLİYOGRAFYA
--
   [loading.gif]

     * [logo_2.svg]
     * GURUR

   Her hakkı mahfuzdur. TDV İslâm Ansiklopedisi’nin her türlü telif hakkı
   TDV İslâm Araştırmaları Merkezi’ne ait olup 5846 sayılı Kanun</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-12">
<text>
   Eyes Wide Shut (1999) — Stanley Kubrick

Değersizlik Duygusu ve Gurur

Aşağılık Kompleksi ve Kibir

--

   Share

Gurur ve Kibirin Farkı

   Schopenhauer gurur ve kibir arasındaki ayrımı şöyle verir:
   “Tabiatımızın burada betimlediği budalalığı, temel olarak üç sürgün
   verir: Hırs, kibir ve gururdur bunlar. Son ikisi arasındaki fark ise
   şudur : Gurur, bir insanın, belirli bir yönden kendi üstün değerine
   yönelik zaten sabit olan yargısını esas almaktadır; oysaki kibir,
   başkalarında da böyle bir kanı oluşturma arzusudur ve genellikle, bu
   arzuya, sonunda kendi kendisini de aynı şeye ikna etmeye yönelik gizli
   bir umut eşlik eder. Şu halde, kişinin kendi kendisine aşırı saygı
   göstermesi olan gurur, içten kaynaklanır; dolayısıyla, doğrudan kişinin
   kendi takdiridir; buna karşılık, kibir ise, böylesi bir saygıya, dışsal
   olarak yani dolaylı bir biçimde ulaşma çabasıdır. Dolayısıyla kibir
   insanları, konuşkan, gurur ise suskun kılar.” 1

   “Gururun en ucuz türü ise ulusal gururdur; zira eğer bir insan kendi
   ulusu ile böbürleniyorsa bu, kendi adına gurur duyabileceği hiçbir
   özelliğe sahip olmadığı anlamına gelmektedir.” 2

     Alçakgönüllülük erdemi lümpenler için hatrı sayılır bir buluştur.
--
Gerçeklerden Kaçış ve İkiyüzlülük

   Sahte mütevazılık, kısa boylu adamların kapıdan eğilerek geçmesi
   gibidir denir. Yani arkasında büyük bir kibir saklar. Tıpkı gurur ve
   suçluluk hislerinde olduğu gibi, mütevazılıkta da bir denge makbuldür.
   Had bilmek zaten kendi sınırlarımız, kapasitemizle ilgili sahici bir
   tutum sergilemektir. Kısacası kişinin kendini bilmesi ve
--
   özsaygısının yüksekliğine işaret değildir. Hatta durum tam tersidir.
   Şişinmek ve ukalalık genellikle içsel bir boşluk ve kişinin kendinden
   şüphe ettiğinin belirtisidir; endişe hissinin üzerini örtmek için en
   sık başvurulan yöntem gurur gösterisi yapmaktır.

   Kendini güçsüz hisseden kimse zorbalaşır, daha da güçsüz olanlarsa
   kabadayılaşır; el kol oynaması, çok konuşma, ukalalık yapma ve işi
--
   Dolayısıyla kişinin kendi kendine yönelttiği suçlamaların çoğu
   küstahlıklarının üstünü örtmeye yarar. Kendi kendilerini suçlayarak
   kibirlerini alt ettiklerini belirten kimseler Spinoza’nın şu sözleri
   üzerinde düşünmelidir: “Gururlu bir insan olmaya en çok yaklaşanlar
   kendilerinden tiksinenlerdir.” Antik çağda Yunanistan’da işçi
   sınıfından oylarını alabilmek için üzerinde koca koca delikler olan bir
   paltoyla ortalarda gezen bir politikacı gören Sokrates onun
   ikiyüzlülüğünü şu sözleriyle açığa vurmuştur: Paltondaki deliklerden
   kibrin görünüyor. ” 3

   Şimdi burada kibir ve gurur arasındaki ayrımı daha iyi netleştirmeye
   çalışalım. Kibirliler, narsisistik özellikleri daha güçlü olanlardır.
   Kendilerine dair beğenilerini açıkça gösterirler. Sosyal ve empatisi
   yüksek(!) bir karakter çizerler. Bunun yanında, ötekini asla
--
   Dolayısıyla kibirli için hayat hakikatten öncedir; somut olanda yaşar.
   İçindeki aşağılık duygusunu inkar ederek başa çıkmaya çalışır.

   Gururlu olansa kendinden nefret eder. Aşağılık duygusunu inkar etmez,
   fakat bunun için başkalarını suçlar. Onun için hakikat, hayattan
   önceliklidir. “Sadece ben değil, sizler, hepiniz de birer zavallı,
   aşağılık varlıklarsınız” diye haykırmak için can atar. Ancak yüzleşme
--
   başkalarının beğenisini talep etmenin çelişkisi, içindeki nefreti daha
   da azdırır. Üstelik, nefret ettiği kişilerden bunu istiyodur.

   Aşırı gurur kişiyi savunmasız, alıngan ve kırılgan yapar.

Kendini Değersizleştirme

--

Değişim ve Dönüşüme Direnç

   Gururlu kişi değişmekten korkar, kibirli zaten halinden memnundur.
   Gururlu kişinin mükemmelliyetçiliği tamamen sahtedir. Aslında o
   kendisini başarısızlığa hazırlıyordur. Bu kusurlu yapmanın değil,
   yap(a)mamanın başarısızlığıdır. Kendini yapmamakla eleştirir ve
   rahatlar. Ne de olsa “şayet yapsaydı mükemmel bir iş çıkarabilirdi”
--
   kendini cezalandırır.

   Kibirli kişi zaten sevilmek ve böylelikle manipüle etmek için uğraşır.
   Gururlu kişi ise kendine olan nefretinden ötürü, onu sevenlerden de
   nefret eder.

   Kısacası, meselemizin özünde kendini sevebilmek vardır. Aşağılık
   kompleksine karşı kibir, kendinden nefret etmeye karşı ise gurur
   büyütenler kendini sevemeyenlerdir.

   Değersiz Hissetirilme yazısında vurguladığım gibi, kendilik ile savaşı
--

   4 Rollo May, Kendini arayan insan, sayfa 96–97
   Değersizlik Duygusu
   Gurur
   Kibir
   Aşağılık Kompleksi
   Türkçe</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-13">
<text>   #shellfishbooks » Feed shellfishbooks » Comments Feed shellfishbooks »
   Kitap Alıntıları: Gurur Ve Önyargı-Jane Austen||ShellfishBooks Comments
   Feed alternate alternate alternate

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=G-82R3PYZBJ4
--
   shellfishbooks
   "i have loved the stars too fondly to be fearful of the night."

Kitap Alıntıları: Gurur Ve Önyargı-Jane Austen||ShellfishBooks

   Posted On January 8, 2021

--
   sayfa 5: “Beş kız büyütmüş bir kadın kendi güzelliğini düşünmekten
   vazgeçmelidir.”

   sayfa 20: “Ben de gururunu kolayca affedebilirdim, benim gururumu
   yaralamasaydı.”

   sayfa 28: “Hoş bir kadının yüzündeki bir çift güzel gözün
--
   sayfa 56: “Elizabeth’inizin resmine gelince, işte onu yaptırmaya
   kalkmamalısınız çünkü hangi ressam o güzel gözlerin hakkını verebilir?”

   sayfa 60: “Gerçek bir akıl üstünlüğü varsa gurur her zaman emin ellerde
   olacaktır.”

   sayfa 133: “Âşıklar dünyanın en aksi insanları olurlardı.”
--
   sayfa 230: “Ama acı sözler söyleme talihsizliği, içimde büyüttüğüm
   önyargıların doğal sonucu.”

   sayfa 253: “Bazıları ona gururlu derler, ama ben zerresini görmediğime
   eminim.”

   sayfa 334: “Sık sık düşünüyorum da, insanın sevdiklerinden ayrılması
--
   ⭐⭐⭐⭐
   Rating: 3.5 out of 5.

   Gurur Ve Önyargı kitabını okudunuz mu? Okumayı düşünüyor musunuz? Yazım
   hakkında fikir, öneri ve düşüncelerinizi yorumlar kısmında
   belirtebilirsiniz :))

--
       other favourites!!)
     * Christina Marquez on january bookish wrap-up (books + movies + TV
       shows and other favourites!!)
     * ophelia on Kitap Alıntıları: Gurur Ve Önyargı-Jane
       Austen||ShellfishBooks
     * Miray on Sıfır Kilometre-Beyza Alkoç Kitap Alıntıları||Shellfish</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-14">
<text>   İslam
   Ahlak

Gurur ve kibir gibi duyguların geçerli olduğu yer var mıdır, ne yapmalıyım?

   Soran : Sorularlaislami...
   Tarih: 14.08.2009 - 00:00 | Güncelleme: 14.12.2021 - 15:59
--

   Değerli kardeşimiz,

   - “Gururun imanı yok edici” olduğu vurgusu doğru değildir.  Bazı
   hadislerde “Zerre  miskal kalbinde kibir bulunan cennete girmez /
   giremez.” (Ebû Dâvud, Libâs, 26) mealindeki ifadeler, İslam’ın ortaya
   koyduğu hakikatlerden birini inkâr etmek, hakkı kabul etmemek
   anlamındadır. Yoksa, insanların çoğunda az-çok var olan enaniyet,
   benlik, -bilinen- gurur anlamında değildir. Nitekim, Müslim’de geçen
   bir hadiste, konuyu Abdullah b. Mesud şöyle anlatıyor:

     Hz. Peygamber (a.s.m) “Kalbinde  zerre miskal kibir bulunan cennete
--

   İlave bilgi için tıklayınız:

   - Enaniyyet, Gurur, Tekebbür, İftihar Nedir?

   Selam ve dua ile...
   Sorularla İslamiyet</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-15">
<text>   Google'da!
   Aşk Facebook'ta!

Gurur Sözleri

     * Sev! Öyle sev ki kalmasın bir damla gurur gururun başladığı yerde
       sevgi ızdırap olur.
       [icon-category.gif] Güzel Sözler
       [like.png] 3 : Beğen
     * Sen seni seveni görmeyecek kadar körsen, O da sana sevgisini
       söylemeyecek kadar gururludur.
       [icon-category.gif] SMS Sözleri
       [like.png] 3 : Beğen
     * Aşkım için ölürüm ama gururum için aşkımdan bile vazgeçerim....
       [icon-category.gif] SMS Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Hayatta en uzun aşk, tek taraflı olandır Küçük insanların büyük
       gururları olur Ayrılıklar küçük sevgileri yıkar, büyük sevgileri
       kuvvetlendirir.
       [icon-category.gif] SMS Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * KIRMIŞSAM BİLMEDEN SENİ.BüYüKLüK GöSTERDE AFFET BENİ.üZMüSSEM
       BİLMEDEN SENİ BüYüKLüK GöSTERDE AFFET BENİ EĞER SENDE SEVMİŞSEN
       BENİM GİBİ KIR HAYDİ GURURUNU
       [icon-category.gif] SMS Sözleri
       [like.png] 14 : Beğen
     * Sana karanfilin sadak atını,sümbülün bağlılığını,menekşenin
       tevazusunu,çiğdemin neşesini lalenin gururunu,leylağın saadetini
       versem bana kalbini verir misin?
       [icon-category.gif] SMS Sözleri
       [like.png] 2 : Beğen
     * Sen benim sevgimi görmeyecek kadar körsen, bende sana sevgimi
       söylemeyecek kadar gururluyum. Ben buyum.
       [icon-category.gif] SMS Sözleri
       [like.png] 2 : Beğen
     * Sen,seni seveni görmeyecek kadar körsen,sevgini bana söylemeyecek
       kadar gururluysan ve Hayallere dalıp gidersen,Benim olan Sevgimi
       sana nasıl anlatabilirim.
       [icon-category.gif] SMS Sözleri
       [like.png] 1 : Beğen
     * Sevgi ne diye sordular YALAN dedim. Sevdin mi dediler öLESİYE
       dedim. Neden ayrıldın dediler sadece Gurur, Gurur ve sadece GURUR
       dedim!!!
       [icon-category.gif] SMS Sözleri
       [like.png] 2 : Beğen
     * Seni bir yıldız gibi koyacağım göklere Her gece ışığını ruhumdan
       alacaksın Aldanma gururunu okşayan çiçeklere En güzel güllerini
       ruhumla alacaksın.
       [icon-category.gif] SMS Sözleri
       [like.png] 2 : Beğen
     * Sev seni seveni görmeyecek kadar körsen. Oda sana sevgisini sana
       söylemeyecek kadar gururludur.
       [icon-category.gif] SMS Sözleri
       [like.png] 1 : Beğen
     * Bir gün o vazgeçemediğin gururundan vazgeçerde bana dönersen şunu
       sakın unutma ki senin gururun bittiği yerde benim gururum
       başlar.....
       [icon-category.gif] SMS Sözleri
       [like.png] 3 : Beğen
     * BIRAK DAĞITSIN RüZGAR SAçLARIMI YAĞMURA GEREK YOK BEN
       AĞLARIM.HANCERE GEREK YOK GöNüLDEN KANARIM.SEV İYORUMDUM SENİ,BİR
       GURUR UĞRUNA YIKTIN HER ŞEYİ!
       [icon-category.gif] SMS Sözleri
       [like.png] 4 : Beğen
     * SEV! öYLE SEVKİ KALMASIN BİR DAMLA GURUR GURURUN BAŞLADIĞI YERDE
       SEVGİ IZDIRAP OLUR.
       [icon-category.gif] SMS Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Zannetme ki her susan konuşmaktan acizdir kırılan gururun onun için
       bir hiçtir.Zannetme ki sevgisizdir yüreğinde perçinlenmişse.bu
       suskunluk anlayana çok şey anlatır.
       [icon-category.gif] SMS Sözleri
       [like.png] 2 : Beğen
     * Sen seni seveni görmeyecek kadar körsen eğer,o seni seven de sana
       "aşkını" söylemeyecek kadar gururludur!!!!!
       [icon-category.gif] SMS Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Sadece özür dilemek istemiştim. Yapamadım saçma gururuma yenildim
       ama sessizce çekip gitmene de dayanamadım. Beni affet olur mu? Çok
       üzgünüm!
       [icon-category.gif] Özür Mesajları
       [like.png] 2 : Beğen
     * Sadece özür dilemek istemiştim ama yapamadım saçma gururuma
       yenildim ve beni terslemenden korktum, ama sessizce çekip gitmene
       de dayanamadım ve bu mesajı yolluyorum şimdi.. beni affet olur mu?
       Çok üzgünüm. Geçmişte yaşadığımız tüm kırgınlıklar için özür
       diliyorum senden.
       [icon-category.gif] Özür Mesajları
       [like.png] 9 : Beğen
     * Beni sev öyle sevki kalmasın bir damla gurur.çünkü gururun olduğu
       yerde aşk izdi rap olur.
       [icon-category.gif] SMS Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Her başarılı erkeğin arkasında, onunla gurur duyan bir karısı ve bu
       işe şaşakalmış bir kayınvalidesi vardır. (Brooks Hays)
       [icon-category.gif] Kadın - Erkek İlişkileri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Benim annem, canım annem. Sen benim hayatımın, en büyük varlığısın.
       Sensiz bir hayat düşünemiyorum senin varlığın, beni hayatta en
       mutlu eden şey. İyi ki varsın ve iyi ki benim annemsin, senin gibi
       bir annem olduğu için gurur duyuyorum. Anneler günün kutlu olsun
       annem&amp;#8230;
       [icon-category.gif] Anneler Günü Mesajları
       [like.png] 3 : Beğen
     * Size karanfilin sadakatini, sümbülün bağlılığını, menekşenin
       tevazusunu, lalenin gururunu, leyleğın saadetini versek, bize de
       dua eder misiniz? Kandiliniz mübarek olsun..
       [icon-category.gif] Kandil Mesajları
       [like.png] 1 : Beğen
     * Size karanfilin sadakatini, sümbülün bağlılığını, menekşenin
       tevazusunu, lalenin gururunu, leyleğın saadetini versek, bize de
       dua eder misiniz? Kandiliniz mübarek olsun..
       [icon-category.gif] Kandil Mesajları
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Senin olmakla her zaman gurur duydum ve her zaman senin küçük
       bebeğin kalacağım. Anneler günün kutlu olsun biricik annem.
       [icon-category.gif] Anneler Günü Mesajları
       [like.png] 2 : Beğen
     * Size karanfilin sadakatini, sümbülün bağlılığını, menekşenin
       tevazusunu, lalenin gururunu, leyleğın saadetini versek, bize de
       dua eder misiniz? Beraat Kandiliniz Mübarek Olsun...
       [icon-category.gif] Kandil Mesajları
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Aşk sözleri denilince akla gelen ilk site. ~ WWW.LOVE.GEN.TR ~
     * Size karanfilin sadakatini, sümbülün bağlılığını, menekşenin
       tevazusunu, lalenin gururunu, leyleğın saadetini versek, bize de
       dua eder misiniz? Kandiliniz mübarek olsun..
       [icon-category.gif] Kandil Mesajları
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Size karanfilin sadakatini, sümbülün bağlılığını, menekşenin
       tevazusunu, lalenin gururunu, leyleğın saadetini versek, bize de
       dua eder misiniz? Kandiliniz mübarek olsun..
       [icon-category.gif] Kandil Mesajları
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Size karanfilin sadakatini, sümbülün bağlılığını, menekşenin
       tevazusunu, lalenin gururunu, leyleğın saadetini versek, bize de
       dua eder misiniz? Kandiliniz mübarek olsun..
       [icon-category.gif] Kandil Mesajları
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Size karanfilin sadakatini, sümbülün bagliligini, meneksenin
       tevazusunu, lalenin gururunu, leylegin saadetini versek, bize de
       dua eder misiniz? Kadir Geceniz mübarek olsun.
       [icon-category.gif] Kandil Mesajları
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Size karanfilin sadakatini, sümbülün bagliligini, meneksenin
       tevazusunu, lalenin gururunu, leylegin saadetini versek, bize de
       dua eder misiniz? Mevlit kandiliniz mübarek olsun.
       [icon-category.gif] Kandil Mesajları
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Benim bitanecik tatlı annem, senin çocuğun olduğum için her zaman
       gurur duydum. Ellerinden öperim.
       [icon-category.gif] Anneler Günü Mesajları
       [like.png] 5 : Beğen
     * Evimizin yakışıklısı... Babamız canımız bir tanemiz. Bil ki seni
       hergün daha çok seviyoruz. Varlığınla gurur duyuyoruz. Sen bizim
       herşeyimizsin. Babalar günün kutlu olsun.
       [icon-category.gif] Babalar Günü Mesajları
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Birini seviyosan ölüme sevmek qerek bi kızın yada bi erkegin
       gururuyla oynuyosan ona sevgi denilmez seviyosan kalpten yürektn
       sevmek qerek ölümüne seveceksin?
       [icon-category.gif] Aşk Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Öpüşmenin aşk sanıldığı bu devirde yanlızlığımla gurur duyuyorum.
       [icon-category.gif] Acı Sözler
       [like.png] 3 : Beğen
     * Kırdım artık hayatımı bakamam geriye gururum ayaklarının önünde bi
       kagıt parçası oldu acıyla bıraktığın kalbim ise artik acıyı
       temizleyen bir paspas oldu hayatım sadece senin acılarını
       temizlemekle geçiyor lanet olsun!
       [icon-category.gif] Acı Sözler
       [like.png] 8 : Beğen
     * Regaip Kandil Mesajları:Size karanfilin sadakatini, sümbülün
       bağlılığını, menekşenin tevazusunu, lalenin gururunu, leyleğin
       saadetini versek, bize de dua eder misiniz? Regaip Kandiliniz
       mübarek olsun.
       [icon-category.gif] Regaip Kandili Mesajları
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Size karanfilin sadakatini, sümbülün bağlılığını, menekşenin
       tevazusunu, lalenin gururunu, leyleğin saadetini versek, bize de
       dua eder misiniz? Regaip Kandiliniz mübarek olsun.
       [icon-category.gif] Regaip Kandili Mesajları
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Size karanfilin sadakatini, sümbülün bağlılığını, menekşenin
       tevazusunu, lalenin gururunu, leyleğın saadetini versek, bize de
       dua eder misiniz? Kandiliniz mübarek olsun. .
       [icon-category.gif] Regaip Kandili Mesajları
       [like.png] 1 : Beğen
     * Sen seni seveni göremeyecek kadar körsen seni sevende seni
       sevdiğini söylemeyecek kadar gururludur.
       [icon-category.gif] Ayrılık Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Seni Sevmeyeni Görmeyecek Kadar Körsen, Oda Sana Sevgisini
       Söylemiyecek Kadar Gururludur.
       [icon-category.gif] Aşk Sözleri
       [like.png] 188 : Beğen
     * Kimseye bağlı kalacak kadar light değilim kimseye kendimi ezdiricek
       kadar gurursuz değilim! ya tamam ya devam hayatıma!
       [icon-category.gif] Sert Sözler
       [like.png] 1 : Beğen
     * Balonların gururu, iğnelerle karşılaşıncaya kadardır.
       [icon-category.gif] Düşünürlerin Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Haksızlık önünde egilmem çünkü hakkımla beraber gururumuda
       kaybetmiş olurum. . ben tekim benim beyaz sayfamda kalemimde
       silgimde sevdiklerimin elinde. . ben yazarım ben silerim
       [icon-category.gif] Delikanlı Sözler
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Haksızlık önünde egilmem çünkü hakkımla beraber gururumuda
       kaybetmiş olurum. . ben tekim benim beyaz sayfamda kalemimde
       [icon-category.gif] Delikanlı Sözler
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Haksızlık önünde egilmem çünkü hakkımla beraber gururumuda
       kaybetmiş olurum. . ben tekim benim beyaz sayfamda kalemimde
       silgimde sevdiklerimin elinde. . ben yazarım ben silerim!'
       [icon-category.gif] Delikanlı Sözler
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Evimizin yakışıklısı... babamız canımız bir tanemiz. bil ki seni
       hergün daha çok seviyoruz. varlığınla gurur duyuyoruz. sen bizim
       herşeyimizsin. babalar günün kutlu olsun. ailen.
       [icon-category.gif] Babalar Günü Mesajları
       [like.png] Beğen
     * İhanetinin bedeli gözyaşlarım olsa da, yalnızlığım bile senden daha
       gururludur, sen bir hiçsin benim için..
       [icon-category.gif] Yalnızlık Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Kıskançlıkda gururun payı aşktan fazladır. (La Rochefoucauld)
       [icon-category.gif] Özlü Sözler
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Gurur insanı mutluluktan uzaklaştırır.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * İlmi üç şey için öğrenme ve üç şeyden dolayı da terk etme: ilmi,
       münakaşada kullanmak, gururlanmak ve riya için öğrenme; ilmi tahsil
       etmekten utandığından, küçümsediğin için ve ilim yerine cahilliğe
       razı olduğun için terk etme.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Dilencinin gururu olmaz.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Eğer yarın uyanmayacak olsaydın ve ola ki bugün dünyadaki son günün
       olsaydı bu hayatta yaptıkların için gurur duyar mıydın? Çünkü eğer
       duymuyorsan doğru yolu bulmaya başlasan iyi olur.
       [icon-category.gif] Replikler
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Kime bu gurur? Say, ölenlerin yeri kaç karış...
       Ölümün ansızlığında kaybolur son yakarış...!
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Genellikle, bütün büyük yanlışlıkların altında gurur yatar.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Hiç kimseye gururla bakma, o da kendisine göre görkemlidir.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Açlık ile gurur, hiçbir zaman bağdaşamaz.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] 2 : Beğen
     * Her kötülük gururdan doğar.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Size karanfilin sadakatini, sümbülün bağlılığını, menekşenin
       tevazusunu, lalenin gururunu, leyleğın saadetini versek, bize de
       dua eder misiniz? Miraç kandiliniz mübarek olsun.
       [icon-category.gif] Kandil Mesajları
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Gurur insanın düşüncesidir; söze dökülen onun pek küçük bir
       parçasıdır.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Istırap, gururun sütninesidir.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Gururumuz olmasaydı, başkalarının gururundan şikayet etmezdik.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Birçok kimseler, kendilerinde bulunduğu halde, başkalarında tefahur
       ve gururu sevmezler.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Aşırı tevazuun da gurur gibi kendisine mahsus tehlikeleri vardır.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * İlimde gurur olmaz, olursa gerçekler yok olur.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Bazen her şeyi unutup, sadece sarılmak istersin; ama bir şey seni
       hep durdurur. Adı ne mi? Gurur.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Nankörlük, gururun kızıdır.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Büyük ve üstün insanın gururu yoktur ve ağırbaşlıdır. Küçük ise
       kendini beğenir ve ağırbaşlı değildir.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Başkalarının gururuna tahammül edemeyişimiz, kendi gururumuzu
       incittiği içindir.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Alçakgönüllülük gururun perhizidir.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Size karanfilin sadakatini, sümbülün bagliligini, meneksenin
       tevazusunu, lalenin gururunu, leylegin saadetini versek, bize de
       dua eder misiniz? Berat Kandiliniz mübarek olsun.
       [icon-category.gif] Kandil Mesajları
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Her insan bir gün mutlaka ölür; Ama zengin gururdan, fakir açlıktan
       ölür.
       [icon-category.gif] Facebook Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Genellikle bütün büyük yanlışlıkların altında gurur yatar.
       [icon-category.gif] Aleksandr Sergeyeviç Puşkin Sözleri
       [like.png] 1 : Beğen
     * Meclis bir akşamda bilinen kararları aldı ve ülkeyi değiştirdi.
       Eğer bu kararlar 15 yıl önce alınmış olaydı 30 bin gencimiz
       ölmeyecekti. ˜Şimdi birilerinin yürekleri sızlıyor mu?'
       diyeceksiniz. Bence sızlamıyor. Her zaman onurdan bahseder bizim
       ahmaklar. Amerikalı dolar verince kendi gururları nerede kalıyor
       peki
       [icon-category.gif] Ahmet Altan Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Hiçbir iyilik sahtelikle bir arada gitmez; doğru hiçbir zaman
       yanlışa yer vermez. Kendini olduğundan fazla göstermek de, çoğu kez
       gururdan değil budalalıktandır.
       [icon-category.gif] Aristoteles Sözleri
       [like.png] 1 : Beğen
     * En değersiz gurur, milli gururdur. Bu, onunla gurur duyandaki
       bireysel özelliklerin yoksunluğunu ele verir. Çünkü insan neden
       milyonlarca insanlarla paylaştığı bir özelliğe tutunma gereği
       duyarbilirki başka türlü? Dikkate değer kişisel niteliklere sahip
       olan, sürekli göz önünde bulundurduğu ülkesinin hatalarını açıkça
       görebilecektir. Ama dünyada gurur duyabilecek hiçbir şeyi olmayan
       her zavallı aptal gurur duyabilmek için son çare olarak ait olduğu
       ülkesi ile gurur duyar.
       [icon-category.gif] Arthur Schopenhauer Sözleri
       [like.png] 1 : Beğen
     * Sitemizin sevgi sözleri bölümü için söz göndermek ister misiniz? ~
       WWW.LOVE.GEN.TR ~
     * Doğal davranmalı, mevkiinizin size getirdiği sahte bir gurura
       kapılmamalısınız.
       [icon-category.gif] Attila Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
--
       kendinizi tamamen adamanız, geçmiş dünyanızla, o dünyanın ˜insan
       başkalarının hatırı için yaşaması gereken kurbanlık hayvandır'
       diyen temel doktrini ile bütün bağlarınızı koparmanız gereklidir.
       Kendi kişiliğinizin kıymeti uğruna mücadele edin. Kendi gururunuz
       uğruna mücadele edin. İnsan tabiatının özü olan hükümran ve
       rasyonel zihniniz uğruna mücadele edin. Ahlakınızın yaşamanın
       ahlakı olduğuna, mücadelenizin, yeryüzünde var olmuş her başarının,
--
       [icon-category.gif] Ayn Rand Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Dünyaya ait olan her şey, doğal benliğin tutkuları, gözün tutkuları
       ve maddi yaşamın verdiği gurur Baba'dan değil, dünyadandır.
       [icon-category.gif] Aziz Yuhanna Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Gittin mi büyük gideceksin !
       Ayrılık bile gurur duyacak seninle.
       Gittin mi ayak...ların onun yakınından bile geçmeyecek.
       Gölgen bile kalmayacak ardında.
       Gittin mi onurunla gideceksin;
       "Haklıysan gidecek, gitmişsen dönmeyeceksin.
       [icon-category.gif] Can Yücel Sözleri
       [like.png] 1 : Beğen
     * Ve gurur, kaybedenlerin, acizlerin maskesiymiş,
       Sevgi dolu yüreklerin gururu olmazmış,
       Yüreğimde sevgi bulduğumda anladım.
       [icon-category.gif] Can Yücel Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Bazen her şeyi unutup sadece sımsıkı sarılmak istersin; ama bir şey
       hep engel olur. Nedir o biliyor musun ? Gurur.
       [icon-category.gif] Can Yücel Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Öyle sevmelisin ki beni; bırakıp giderken hayatı, sadece mutluluk
       olmalı yüzümüzde. Birbirimizi sevmenin gururu olmalı herşeyde.
       [icon-category.gif] Can Yücel Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Sen, Seni seveni görmeyecek kadar körsen, O da sana sevgisini
       söylemeyecek kadar gururludur işte.
       [icon-category.gif] Can Yücel Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Bazen her şeyi unutup sadece sımsıkı sarılmak istersin. Ama bir şey
       hep engel olur. Adı ne mi ? Gurur .
       [icon-category.gif] Can Yücel Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Sevgi garip bir yangın.
       Yaşaması için büyümesi gerek.
       O yangına herşeyini atacaksın;
       zamanını, gururunu, dehanı..!
       [icon-category.gif] Cemil Meriç Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Herkes herkesi aynı sevemez dostlarım.. Kimileri gururunun yettiği
       kadar sever, Kimileri de ömrünün yettiği kadar.
       [icon-category.gif] Charles Bukowski Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Başkalarının gururuna tahammül edemeyişimiz, kendi
       gururumuzu incittiği içindir.
       [icon-category.gif] François de La Rochefoucauld Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Oysa günün birinde yalnızlık yoracak seni,
       Günün birinde gururun iki büklüm olacak ve cesaretin kırılacak.
       Yalnızım'' diye haykıracaksın günün birinde.
       Kendi ululuğun bile bir hayalet gibi korkutacak seni.
       Her şey sahte ! diye bağıracaksın günün birinde... Yalnız kişiyi
--
       Peki, gücün yetiyor mu buna? Katil olmaya?
       [icon-category.gif] Friedrich Nietzsche Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * İnsanların bir şeyleri var ki ,gurur duyuyorlar onunla.Ne
       diyorlardı , onları gururlandıran şeyin adına ? Eğitim diyorlar ;
       kendilerini keçi çobanlarından ayırt eden şeymiş bu!
       [icon-category.gif] Friedrich Nietzsche Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
--
       Homeros'un kahramanları, İskandinav Vikingleri ... tümü de bu
       gereksinimi paylaşıyorlardı.Nereye gitseler arkalarında "barbar"
       kavramını bırakan bu soylu ırklar, en yüksek kültürlerinde bile,
       bunun bilinçliliğini gösteriyor, gururunu taşıyorlardı. insanlar
       doğar,büyür,yaşar ve ölürler önemli olan çok yaşamak değil yaşadığı
       sürece fazla birşeyler yapabilmektir.
       [icon-category.gif] Friedrich Nietzsche Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Çünkü biz artık insaniyet ve barış değil, milliyetçilik ve savaş
       istiyoruz. İnsaniyetperverlik köpekliktir. İnsaniyet
       milliyetçilikle asla uyuşamaz. İnsaniperverlik yüksek gurur ve
       haysiyet duygularına zıttır. İnsaniyetperverlik domuz katolik
       papazının ve sinsi protestan misyonerinin kendi alçakça
       maksatlarına âlet edindikleri bir tuzaktır. Hayır! Biz barışta da
--
       [icon-category.gif] Hüseyin Nihal Atsız Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Ben, yabancı kaynaklı hiçbir fikri benimsemeğe tenezzül etmeyecek
       kadar millî şuur ve gurura malik bir Türk˜üm. Siyasi, içtimai
       mezhebim Türkçülük˜dür.
       [icon-category.gif] Hüseyin Nihal Atsız Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Her geçen gün daha da büyüyoruz! İşte! Gururumuzun tablosunu
       seyrediyoruz! Her gittiğimiz yerde, her geçen gün; daha da
       çoğalıyoruz! Bizleri takip eden herkese sonsuz teşekkürler. Daha da
       iyilerinde, her zaman daha iyilerinde! Her şey bizler için! İyilik
--
       iyilerinde görüşmek üzere. Çok sağolun.
       [icon-category.gif] Hayko Cepkin Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Rock müziği gururlu bir müzik olarak değerlendiriyorum.
       [icon-category.gif] Hayko Cepkin Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Öğüdün size ulaşmasını engelleyen, gurur perdesidir. Gurur ve
       bencillik kalkmadıkça öğüt etkili olmaz.
       [icon-category.gif] Hz Hasan Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Ne kadar kibirli dursa da bardağın önünde eğilir çaydanlık. Öyleyse
       bu büyüklenme niye? Bu kibir, bu gurur niçin?
       [icon-category.gif] İmam El Gazali Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Bir kadının Hassas oldugu 3 şey vardır ; Gururu , Namusu ve Yüregi.
       Sakın Gururunu incitmeyin. Namusuna laf Etmeyin ve sevgisini
       Kazandıysanız eger , O yürekten Hiç gitmeyin...
       [icon-category.gif] Diğer Sözler Sözleri
       [like.png] 5 : Beğen
     * Hayatta en Tehlikeli şeylerden bir tanesi Gururu kırılmış Kadındır.
       [icon-category.gif] Diğer Sözler Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Aşkla gurur bir arada yürümez!
       ya aşkın için gururunu, yada
       gururun için aşkını feda edeceksin.
       [icon-category.gif] Diğer Sözler Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Aşırı tevazunun da gurur gibi kendine mahsus tehlikeleri vardır.
       [icon-category.gif] Jean Jacques Rousseau Sözleri
       [like.png] Beğen
     * Gurur Sözleri kategorisi için yeni bir söz ekle;

       ____________________________________________________________
       ____________________________________________________________</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-16">
<text>     * Hakkında
     * Contact

Gurur ile ilgili söylenmiş güzel sözler

   gurur1alıntı sözleri

   gurur1alıntı sözleri

   Cumhuriyet yarasız harcamalarda bulunacak kadar insandan yana zengin
   değildir..Gururlanma bir savurganlıktır. Kimileri için buradan gitmek
   bir ödevse, bu ödev de herhangi bir başka ödev gibi yerine
   getirilmelidir.

--

   Kendini olduğundan az göstermek, tevazu değil, budalalıktır. Kendine
   değerinden az paha biçmek korkaklıktır, pısırıklıktır. Kendini
   olduğundan fazla göstermek de, çok defa gururdan değil budalalıktandır.

   Montaigne

   Balıkların alışkanlıklarını, yıllar boyunca, rüzgarın her değişmesinde
   ağını nereye atacağını öğrenecek kadar gözlemleyen bir balıkçıya şanslı
   diyebilir misiniz? Şans, hazır olmadığını düşünen kişiler için zaman
   harcamayacak kadar gururlu bir tanrıçadır.

   George Clason

   Bazı kapıları kapayın.Gururunuzdan dolayı değil,artık hayatınıza uygun
   olmadıkları için.

   Paulo Coelho

   Uyuduk mu eşit oluruz. Ne tutku, ne gurur, ne umut.

   Melih Cevdet Anday

   Gurur, kıskançlık ve hırs insanların kalplerini ateşleyen üç ateştir.

   Dante Alighieri

   Mutlu olmak istiyorsan; gururu bırak, gönüller almaya bak.

   Mevlana

   Parça parça olduğunu hissettiğin her anda gurur yapma, eğil ve
   parçalarını topla. Asla bir yerde bırakma. O zaman eksik yaşamaya
   başlayacaksın. Güvenmekte zorlanacaksın. Yeni başlangıçları
   kaçıracaksın. Parçalarını yolda bırakma.

   Aret Vartanyan

   Küçük insanların, büyük gururları olur.

   Voltaire

   Eleştiri çok tehlikeli bir kıvılcımdır. Bu kıvılcım barut fıçısından
   farksız olan insan gururunu infilak ettirebilir.

   Dale Carnegie

   Gurur, insanı mutluluktan uzaklaştırır.

   Alphonse de La Martine

   Yaşadıklarıma inanamıyordum. İki yıl içinde yirmi senelik yol almıştım
   sanki. İhtiyarlamıştım, yaralanmıştım, iki çocuk kaybetmiş ve ölümün
   eşiğinden dönmüştüm. Âşık olduğum kocamı, gururumu korumak için
   boşamıştım ve henüz yirmi iki yaşındaydım.

   Ayşe Kulin

   Gurur koltuk değneği gibidir; insanı yükseltebilirse de boyunu uzatmaz.

   Montaigne

   Evet, ama böyle olunca acım büyüyor… İnsan ıstırabına bir değer biçtiği
   an, onu gurur güneşiyle kuşatmış olur. Acıyı çok yoğun yaşamak,
   ıstırabın sevgili varlığı olduğumuza inandırabilir bizi. Öyleyse.

   Fernando Pessoa

   Hiç kimseye gururla bakma, o da kendisine göre görkemlidir.

   Genceli Nizami

   Bir kimse ne derece yüksekten bakarsa, gurur sahibi ise, kalbinden
   insanlara karşı o kadar hiddet ve kin taşır.

   Tolstoy

   Zihniyetimizi değiştirmeliyiz. Hareket eden, eylemci, sahip olmadan
   başaran, başarısıyla gururlanıp kendini üstün saymayan insan tipi
   yetiştirmeliyiz! Bunu başarmak ancak doğaya dönük; doğa, hayvan ve
   insan sevgisini aşılayarak mümkün olabilirdi. Ancak böylesi tüketim
   hırsıyla koşullanmış, gurur ve yarış üzerine kurulu toplumlarda
   düşündüklerini gerçekleştirmek hiç de kolay değildi ama olanaksız da
   değildi.

   Buket Uzuner

   Gurur insanın düşüncesindedir, söze dökülen onun pek küçük bir
   parçasıdır.

   Montaigne

   Sen, seni seveni görmeyecek kadar körsen, o da sana sevgisini
   söylemeyecek kadar gururludur.

   Can Yücel

   Gurur, zayıf adamın güçlü taklidi yapmasıdır.

   Eric Hoffer

   İpeği yapan böcek değil de, giyen kadın gururlanır.

   Cenap Şahabettin

   Onun gururunu ben de kolaylıkla hoş görebilirdim. Benim gururuma
   dokunmamış olsaydı.

   Jane Austen

   Birbirimize bir kaç adım mesafelerdeyiz aslında, ama aramızda
   kilometrelerce gurur var.

   Cemal Süreya

   Genellikle bütün büyük yanlışlıkların altında gurur yatar.

   John Ruskin

   Sorunları ne olursa olsun, herkesi ikna etmeye çalıştığım tek bir şey
   var: ‘Kendini Sevmek’. Sevgi harika bir tedavidir. Kendimizi sevmek
   yaşamımızda mucizeler yaratır. Aşırı gurur, küstahça bir kibir ya da
   kendini beğenme gibi şeylerden bahsetmiyorum; çünkü bunlar sevgi değil,
   sadece korkudur. Kendini sevmek ise, kendimize saygı duymak, mucizevi
   bedenimiz ve aklımız için minnettar olmaktır.

   Louise Hay

   Büyük ve üstün insan, gururludur; ama kavga etmez. O, bir toplum
   adamıdır, partizan değil.

   Konfüçyus

   Ya elindeki imkânları görebilecek kadar gelişmiş değilsin ya da bunu
   yapmak için rahatını ve gururunu gözden çıkaramıyorsun.

   Tolstoy

   Gurur insanı kendi benliğine karşı körleştirir.

   Veronica Roth

   Gururun en güzelinde bile, bir suç kokusu vardır.

   Nurullah Ataç

--

   La Bruyere

   Gurur ve kibir farklı şeyler, ama sık sık aynı anlamda kullanılıyorlar.
   İnsan kibirli olmadan gururlu olabilir. Gurur daha çok kendimizle
   ilgili görüşümüze bağlıdır, kibir ise bizim hakkımızda başkalarına ne
   düşündürtmek istediğimize.

   Jane Austen

   Başkalarına karşı gururlu davranmak ne kadar gülünçse, kendimize karşı
   da o kadar yerindedir.

   La Rochefaucauld

   En rağbette olan görüşlere o kadar inatla karşı konulması, zeka
   kıtlığından değil, daha çok gurur yüzündendir. Doğru olan yolda, öndeki
   yerlerin tutulmuş bulunduğunu görürler de geride kalmaya razı olmazlar.

   La Rochefaucauld

   Gurur, meziyetsiz kimselerde iğreti elbise gibidir, mutlaka bir
   yerinden pot verir.

   Fransız Atasözü
   Yazan:starfikir5 Mart 2016Yazı kategorisi Güzel SözlerEtiketler:Gurur

Yazı dolaşımı</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-17">
<text>   Български
   Magyar
   Hrvatski
   Aşk ve Gurur, Jane Austen
   Uygulamalarımızda okuyun:
   iOS
   ·
--

   Jane Austen

Aşk ve Gurur

   Kitap eklendiğinde bana bildir
   İzlenim
--

     * Colp Çino
       Colp Çinoalıntı yaptı3 yıl önce
       Gurur ve kibir eş anlamlı olarak kullanılsalar da aslında farklı
       şeylerdir. Bir kişi kibirli olmadan gururlu olabilir. Kibir
       başkalarının hakkımızda ne düşünmesini istediğimiz, gurur ise kendi
       kendimizi değerlendirmemizdir.”
          + 6 beğeni
          + Beğen
--
          + Bunu bildirin
     * Su_Kobak
       Su_Kobakalıntı yaptı3 yıl önce
       Bir kişi kibirli olmadan gururlu olabilir. Kibir başkalarının
       hakkımızda ne düşünmesini istediğimiz, gurur ise kendi kendimizi
       değerlendirmemizdir.”
          + 1 beğeni
          + Beğen
--
     * Ali Danaci
       Ali Danacialıntı yaptıgeçen yıl
       Okuduklarıma göre, insan doğası buna çok yatkın. Gerçek ya da
       hayali bir erdeminden ötürü gururlanmayan insan çok azdır. Gurur ve
       kibir eş anlamlı olarak kullanılsalar da aslında farklı şeylerdir.
       Bir kişi kibirli olmadan gururlu olabilir. Kibir başkalarının
       hakkımızda ne düşünmesini istediğimiz, gurur ise kendi kendimizi
       değerlendirmemizdir.”
          + Beğen
          + Yorum</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-18">
<text>
   [ ] İçindekiler tablosunu değiştir

Gurur

   [ ] 31 dil
     * العربية
--
     * Tutku
     * Acıma
     * Zevk
     * Gurur
     * Pişmanlık
     * Reddetme
     * Vicdan
--
     * t
     * d

   Başlığın diğer anlamları için Gurur (anlam ayrımı) sayfasına bakınız.
   [220px-Fisherman_with_chinook_fish.jpg] Yakaladığı balıkla gurur duyan
   bir balıkçı

   Gurur, Türkçede iki farklı konotasyona sahip olan bir sözcüktür.
   Negatif konotasyon, en basit tanımıyla kibir ve kendini beğenme
   anlamlarına gelir. Pozitif konotasyonsa övünme ve övünç anlamına
   gelir.^[1]^[2]
--
Negatif anlamı[değiştir | kaynağı değiştir]

   Kibirlenme, kişinin kendini başkalarıyla kıyaslaması durumudur. Sürekli
   bir kıyas hali psikolojik bir rahatsızlıktır. Aşırı gurur kişinin
   kolayca alınmasına, incinmesine ve ahmakça kabul edilebilecek
   davranışlara sürüklenmesine sebep olabilir.^[kaynak belirtilmeli] Gurur
   duygusunun aşırıya kaçması önlenerek takdirin çevreden gelmesi, kıyas
   halinden uzak durulması gerekir. Kıyaslar toplumsal ayrım ve şiddeti
   körükleyen etkenlerdir. Kişiliğin olgunlaşması esnasında aşırı gururdan
   uzaklaşmak bireyin gelişimini hızlandıracak etkenlerdendir.

Pozitif anlamı[değiştir | kaynağı değiştir]

   Gurur, kişinin kendisi veya bağlı olduğu bir grubun mensuplarının
   varlığı, geçmişi veya başarıları ile övünmesi, bundan haz almasıdır.
   Gurur duygusu belirli bir düzeyde mevcut olduğu müddetçe kişinin veya
   grubun kolektif gelişimini artırmada önemli bir katalizör olabilir ve
   kendini gerçekleştirmeye katkıda bulunarak insanın iç huzurunu muhafaza
   etmesine yardımcı olabilir.
--
Kaynakça[değiştir | kaynağı değiştir]

    1. ^ The New Oxford Dictionary of English Clarendon Press 1998.
    2. ^ "gurur". 4 Haziran 2021 tarihinde kaynağından arşivlendi.

     * g
     * t
--
   Acıma · Aidiyet · Aldırmazlık · Anksiyete · Annelik · Arzu ·
   Aşağılama · Aşk · Azap · Beklenti · Bıkkınlık · Boşluk · Böbürlenme ·
   Coşku · Dehşet · Dikkat · Dinginlik · Duyarsızlık · Düşmanlık · Empati
   kurmak · Fanatiklik · Ferahlama · Gıpta · Gurur · Gücenme · Halinden
   memnunluk · Hayal kırıklığı · Hayret · Heves · Hışım · Histeri ·
   Hoşnutluk · Hoşnutsuzluk · Huzur · Istırap · İçerleme  · İçine doğma ·
   İlgi duyma · İntikam · İlham · Kabul · Kafa karışıklığı · Fobi · Kınama
--
   Otorite kontrolü Bunu Vikiveri'de düzenleyin
     * LNB: 000074397

   "https://tr.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gurur&amp;oldid=30448230"
   sayfasından alınmıştır

   Kategori:
     * Duygular
     * Gurur
     * Psikolojik tutum

   Gizli kategoriler:</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-19">
<text>   [wannart-logo.a16e668.svg]
   [categories.320c10d.svg]

Bir Jane Austen Klasiği: Gurur ve Önyargı'dan Altı Çizilecek 10 Alıntı

     * elifsolmaz
       elifsolmaz
--
       dmc+Cg==] 10354
     * 12 0 0 0

   Bir Jane Austen Klasiği: Gurur ve Önyargı'dan Altı Çizilecek 10 Alıntı

     12
   0
   0
   0
   Pek çokları tarafından Aşk ve Gurur olarak bilinen fakat orijinal
   adıyla Pride and Prejudice olan Jane Austen'ın her rafta yerini alması
   gereken bu eseri, yazarın ikinci kitabıdır. İşte bu unutulmaz eserden
   bazı alıntıları sizler için derledik. İyi okumalar! 1) “Şiiri hep aşkın
   gıdası olarak düşünürdüm.” “Sağlıklı, güçlü, iyi bir aşk için doğru
   olabilir. Zaten güçlü olan bir şeye her şey iyi gelir. Ama eğer zayıf,
   cılız bir eğilimse tatlı bir sone açlıktan öldürür onu.” 2) "Bizi asıl
   aldatan şey kendi gururumuzdur çoğu zaman." 3) "Hiçbir şey alçakgönüllü
   bir görünümden daha yanıltıcı olamaz." 4)"Gurur ve kibir farklı şeyler,
   ama sık sık aynı anlamda kullanılıyorlar. İnsan kibirli olmadan gururlu
   olabilir. Gurur daha çok kendimizle ilgili görüşümüze bağlıdır, kibir
   ise bizim hakkımızda başkalarına ne düşündürtmek istediğimize."
   5)"Kibir ve gururu dize getirebilecek tek gerçektir, aşk." 6) "Onun
   gururunu ben de kolaylıkla hoş görebilirdim. Benim gururuma dokunmamış
   olsaydı." 7) "Benim gerçekten sevdiğim insanlar azdır, beğendiklerim
   ise büsbütün az. Dünyayı görüp tanıdıkça hoşnutsuzluğum artıyor.
   İnsanların iç yüzünün nasıl hiç göründüğü gibi çıkmadığını; iyi ya da</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-2">
<text>akredite olması şerefine sizlere gezegenimizin en eski ve büyük uluslararası
ateist örgütü olan Atheist Alliance International (Uluslararası Ateist
Birliği) kurumunu tanıtacağız. Ama öncelikle kurucularından olduğum Ateist
Dergi’de sizlerle buluşmanın benim için ne denli büyük bir gurur kaynağı
olduğunu belirtmek isterim. Anlatacaklarıma başlamadan önce geçmişe bir
bakalım isterim.

--
   dostlarımla 2014 yılı Nisan ayında ülkemizin ve Ortadoğu’nun ilk yasal
   ateist kurumu olan Ateizm Derneği’ni kurduk. 2-3 ay sonra da eski
   dostlarımız ve dava arkadaşlarımız tarafından yine 2014 yılında
   Ateistler Derneği kuruldu. Nihayet 2016 yılında ülkemizin gururu olan
   bu iki kardeş dernek, tabanlarının sesine kulak vererek Ateizm Derneği
   çatısı altında birleşti. Ülkede -özellikle sol kulvarda- mitoz bölünme
   yolu ile çoğalmaya çalışan ve bu ahmaklığı maharet sayan dostlarımız
--
   2014 yılından itibaren üyesi ve gönüllüsü olduğum Uluslararası Ateist
   Birliği’nin (AAI) eski başkanlarından Stuart Bechman tam da bu
   Kanada'ya taşınma sürecinde bana AAI yönetimine katılmamı ve mutfağa
   girmemi teklif ettiği zaman, artık ülkemde 5 yıldır gururla bayrağını
   taşıdığım, yeri geldiğinde siyasi görüşümden, yeri geldiğinde işimden,
   ailemden, sağlığımdan ve zamanımdan daha yukarıda tuttuğum ateist
   aktivizmime bundan böyle uluslararası arenada ve küresel bir ölçekte
--
   sayısında artış, örgütsel anlamda büyüme, politik yapılanmada büyüme,
   burs ve araştırmada büyüme. Büyüme, üye kuruluşlarımız, bireysel
   üyelerimiz, destekçilerimiz, gönüllülerimiz ve yöneticilerimizin
   başarılarından gurur duymak ve bu gururu paylaşmak adına da önemlidir.

   Geleceğimiz, güçlü bir gönüllü gücüne ve dünyanın dört bir yanındaki en
   iyi ve en parlak kurumların ve araştırmacıların bazılarını tarafımıza</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-20">
<text>   "ÇOK ÇALIŞMA, SAMİMİYET VE BAŞARIDIR"
   HAYATTA İNSANI MAHVEDEN 3 ŞEY VARDIR:

   "CESARETSİZLİK, GURUR VE ÖFKEDİR"


   BİLGE KİŞİ DEMİŞ Kİ.....</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-21">
<text>
   10. Kendisini "gerçekten çok iyi bir adam" olarak görüyor. Son kitabı
   "Engelli Amerika"da "Ben gerçekten çok iyi bir adamım, iyi adam olmakla
   gurur duyuyorum. Fakat ülkemizi yeniden büyük yapma konusunda tutkulu
   ve kararlıyım".

Manşet haber</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-22">
<text>   Hesabım
   GİRİŞ YAPHesap Oluştur

   Ana SayfaVizyondaki FilmlerTüm filmlerTüm Romantik filmleriAşk ve Gurur

Aşk ve Gurur: Benzer filmler

   Aşk ve Gurur
   Haberler
   Fragmanlar
   Oyuncular
--
   İlginç Detaylar
   Box Office
   Benzer Filmler
   "Aşk ve Gurur" filmine benzer 20 film var.
     * Kefaret

Kefaret</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-23">
<text>   #Dostkelimeler » akışı Dostkelimeler » yorum akışı Dostkelimeler »
   Gurur ile ilgili sözler yorum akışı alternate alternate alternate

   Son Gelişmeler
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
--
    1. Haberler
    2. Anlamlı Sözler

Gurur ile ilgili sözler

   11 Kasım 2023, 06:14 yayınlandı
   715
--
     *
     *

   Selam dostlarım, konumuzda Gurur ile ilgili sözler, Gurur Sözleri,
   gurursuz insanlara sözler, Aşk ve Gurur ile İlgili Güzel Sözler,
   Gururla İlgili Kısa Uzun Dini Sözler, Mevlana’nın gurur ile ilgili
   sözleri, Seninle gurur duyuyorum Sözleri, Gurursuzluk ile ilgili
   Sözler, Kadınlık gururu ile ilgili Sözler, Gururlanmak ile ilgili
   Sözler, Başarı gurur sözleri resimli aramalarında sizlere yardımcı
   olacak şekilde paylaşımlar yapmaya çalışacağız.

    Sizler de GURUR ile ilgili güzel sözler paylaşmak isterseniz  yorum
   bölümünden ekleyebilirsiniz. Yorumlarınız bizlere daha iyi paylaşımlar
   yapmak için yol gösterecektir.
   Göz Atın
--
     mevcuttur.
     __________________________________________________________________

Gurur ile ilgili sözler
     __________________________________________________________________

   Gururu Kırılmış Bir insan Ölmüşten Beterdir. Cervantes
   [INS: :INS]
     __________________________________________________________________

   Genellikle bütün büyük yanlışlıkların altında gurur yatar. Aleksandr
   Puşkin
     __________________________________________________________________

   Öğüdün size ulaşmasını engelleyen, gurur perdesidir. Gurur ve bencillik
   kalkmadıkça öğüt etkili olmaz. Hz Hasan ra.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Hiç kimseye gururla bakma, o da kendisine göre görkemlidir. Nizami
     __________________________________________________________________

   Gururlanıp böbürlenmek, adi ve bayağı kimselerin vasfıdır. İmam Şafii
     __________________________________________________________________

   Kibir ve gururlulukta haddini aşanı, Cenab-ı Hakk yerden yere çarpar.
   Hz.Ömer ra
     __________________________________________________________________

Gururlu ve kapalı insanların gelecekleri karartılmıştır. Muhammed BOZDAĞ
     __________________________________________________________________

   Gurur insanlığı öldüren bir silah gibidir. Nebiha YAŞAR
     __________________________________________________________________

   Meşe gölgesinde filizlenen yosunlar, çok kere kendilerini meşe fidanı
--
   bulutlarda sallanır. Cemil Sena
     __________________________________________________________________

   Gururla zayıflık ikiz kardeştir. James Russell Lowell
     __________________________________________________________________

   Bir insanda, kendini yüksek görme, hırs ve şehvet varsa, bunlar,
   konuşurken soğan yemiş gibi kokar. George Meredith
     __________________________________________________________________

Gururu bırak, seni yaratanı düşün, kabre gireceğini bil, öyle hazırlan.
Bediüzzaman Said-i Nursi
     __________________________________________________________________

--
   Küçük işler basit insanları mağrur yapar. W. Shakespeare
     __________________________________________________________________

   Gururun en güzelinde bile bir suç kokusu vardır. Nurullah Ataç
     __________________________________________________________________

   Gururumuz olmasaydı, başkalarının gururundan şikayet etmezdik. La
   Rochefaucauld
     __________________________________________________________________

   Gurur insanı mutluluktan uzaklaştırır. Lamartine
     __________________________________________________________________

Gurur, aslında bir ipotektir; üzerinde bulunduğu insanın kabiliyetinden
tenzil edilmelidir ki, o kabiliyetlerin hakiki değeri meydana çıksın.
Bismarck
     __________________________________________________________________

   Başkalarının gururuna tahammül edemeyişimiz, kendi gururumuzu incittiği
   içindir. La Rochefaucauld
     __________________________________________________________________

   İnsan gururu yüzünden de alçak gönüllü olabilir. Montaigne
     __________________________________________________________________

   En ağır günah, insanın kendisini günahsız bilmek gururudur. Thomas
   Caryle
     __________________________________________________________________

   Kıyısı görünmeyen bir suda, yüzücünün gururu işe yaramaz. Sadi
     __________________________________________________________________

   Çoğu insan medhedilip övüldüğü için gurura kapılır. Hz. Ali (r.a.)
     __________________________________________________________________

   Gururdan doğan hülyalar, bedbahtlıklarımızın yegane kaynağıdır.
   Rousseau
     __________________________________________________________________

   Gurur, kıskançlık ve hırs insanların kalplerini ateşleyen üç ateştir.
   Dante Alighieri
     __________________________________________________________________

   Birçok kimseler, kendilerinde bulunduğu halde, başkalarında tefahur ve
   gururu sevmezler. Benjamin Franklin
     __________________________________________________________________

Gurur insanın düşüncesidir; söze dökülen onun pek küçük bir parçasıdır.
Montaigne
     __________________________________________________________________

   Genellikle, bütün büyük yanlışlıkların altında gurur yatar. Ruskin
     __________________________________________________________________

   Gururun en güzelinde bile bir suç kokusu vardır. Nurullah Ataç
     __________________________________________________________________

   Her kötülük gururdan doğar. Federico Garcia Lorca
     __________________________________________________________________

   Alçak yerde tepecik, kendini dağ sayar. Şinasi
     __________________________________________________________________

   Büyük ve üstün insanın gururu yoktur ve ağırbaşlıdır Küçük ise kendini
   beğenir ve ağırbaşlı değildir. Konfiçyüs
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

   Gurur ile ilgili sözler  konumuzdan sonra diğer konularımıza
   bakabilirsiniz. Semih YAŞAR

Karar vermek ile ilgili sözler
--
   0
   be_endim
   Beğendim
   Gurur ile ilgili sözler
   (BUTTON)
   # Aşk ve Gurur ile İlgili Güzel Sözler # Başarı gurur sözleri # Gurur
   ile ilgili atasözleri # Gurur Sözleri # Gurur Sözleri Kısa # Gururla
   İlgili Kısa Uzun Dini Sözler # Gururlanmak ile ilgili Sözler # gurursuz
   insanlara sözler # Gurursuzluk ile ilgili Sözler # güzel sözler # ile
   ilgili sözler # Kadınlık gururu ile ilgili Sözler # konulara göre
   sözler # Mevlana'nın gurur ile ilgili sözleri # Seninle gurur duyuyorum
   Sözleri

Tamamen Ücretsiz Olarak Bültenimize Abone Olabilirsin</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-24">
<text>
   Haberler Haberde İnsan

Nevşehir firması Doğan Hastanesi'nin gurur ödülü

Nevşehirli Dr. Doğan ve Dr. İsmet Birgül çiftinin sahibi olduğu Özel Doğan
Hastanesi ‘Kadın İstihdamını En Çok Artıran Şirket’ ödülüne layık görüldü.
--
     * Yazdır

   A^- A^+
   Nevşehir firması Doğan Hastanesi'nin gurur ödülü
   (BUTTON)
     * Linkedin
     * Pinterest
--
   gibi çalışmaların, teşviklerin de toplum içinde çok önemli olduğunu,
   bir yer işgal ettiğini düşünüyorum.” dedi.

Nevşehirlilerin gurur gecesi...

   Nevşehirli Dr. Doğan ve Dr. İsmet Birgül çiftinin, hem hayat ortaklığı
   hemde iş ortaklığı ile dönemin Cumhurbaşkanı Turgut Özal ve Kuzey
--
   yaptıkları İstanbul'un ilk özel hastanelerinden Özel Doğan
   Hastanesi'nin dünden bugüne geldiği büyük başarı ile hem Türkiye'nin
   gözbebeği bir sağlık kuruluşu olarak hemde tüm Nevşehirli ve Kıbrıslı
   Türklerin gurur olarak büyük takdir görüyor.

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/oMAfZOAEY6k

--
   kolay olduğu bir konumdadır.

   Doğan Hastanesi olarak hastalarımızın güçlü desteği ve hastanemize
   gösterdiği teveccühle 30.yılımızı kutlamanın gururunu yaşıyoruz.

   [a30f45784935f2f34aa3f1f39cfd8d4b.jpg]</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-25">
<text>   06 May 2021 İSLAMDA ZÜHT VE TAKVA VARDIR. RUHBANLIK YOKTUR.
   01 Nis 2021

GURUR VE KİBİR

   Cemalnur SARGUT 20 Tem 2017

--

   Senin hâlin neye benziyor, biliyor musun Tosun? Baba, çocuğunu kolları
   ile havaya kaldırmış. Çocuk da kendini babasından büyük zannederek
   gururundan yere göğe sığmıyor. Halbuki bu kollar onu bir bırakacak olsa
   düşüp parçalanacak, fakat bundan haberi yok. Çünkü çocuk... yâni idrâki
   tekâmül etmemiş! İşte sen de bir akıl cücesi, bir akıl bebeğisin.
   Şimdiki yüksekliğine aldanma ve bu iğri görüş sende iken daha fazla</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-26">
<text>
   23 Kas 2023 - 15:03- Gündem Güncelleme: 24 Kas 2023 - 14:16

Gurur Duyuyoruz

   ABONE OL Google News Sayfamız

--
   Belediye Başkanı seçilen Şahin Şerifoğulları'nın görev yaptığı dönemde
   birçok önemli projeyi hayata geçirerek Elazığ'a değer kattığını aktaran
   vatandaşlar; "Elazığ'ın çocuğu Elazığ'a birçok hizmet kazandırdı.
   Kendisiyle gurur duyuyoruz" ifadelerini kullanıyor.
   [INS: :INS]

   [DEL: :DEL] [DEL: :DEL] [DEL: :DEL] Gurur Duyuyoruz mask

   WhatsApp Twitle Paylaş

--
   Şerifoğulları’nın ikinci döneminde çok daha güzel projelere imza
   atacağına inandıklarının altını çizdiler. Parti seçmeninin değil diğer
   partilerin seçmenlerinin de başarılı bulduğu ve çalışmalarını takdir
   ettiği Başkan Şerifoğulları ile gurur duyduklarını aktaran vatandaşlar,
   önemli projeleri Elazığ'a kazandırdığı için kendisine teşekkür ettiler.
   HARPUT’U TURİZME KAZANDIRILMASI MUTLU ETTİ</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-27">
<text>Gurur ile ilgili sözler

   Bu sayfada gurur ile ilgili sözler bulacaksınız.
   Devamını Oku
   [INS: :INS]

   Gurursuz insanların anlayış beklemesi kadar saçma bir hayat...

   Sevemeyecek kadar soğuk, pişman olamayacak kadar gurursuzsun.

   Sana karşı gurursuz ve yüzsüz olduğum için tek kez pişman olmadım,
   çünkü ben seni sevdim, yaptığım ayıp değildi.

   Fakat buysa gurursuz olmak; iliklerime kadar özledim...

   Kendimle gurur duyuyorum her şeye rağmen mutlu olmaktan vazgeçmediğim
   için.

   Mutsuz olmakla gurursuz olmak arasındaki ince çizgideyim...

   Benim diyerek elinizi tutamamak canımı yakıyor. Henüz gurursuz olamadım
   karşınıza çıkacak kadar, affedin.

   Sizi seveni sevdiğiniz zaman incileriniz dökülmez, gurursuz biri de
   olmazsınız veya herhangi kötü bir kalıba sığacak biri de olmazsınız.
   Fakat sizi seveni üzüp ağlattığınızda bütün kötü kalıplara sığmayı hak
   edersiniz.

   Basitce severim seni sorunsuz ve gurursuz. Başka türlü seni sevmeyi
   bilmem çünkü...

   Ben aşıktım sadece. Onursuz. Gurursuz ama aşık. - Cihan Sipahi

   "Gitme, kal" diyebilecek kadar gurursuz bi kadınım. Yüzsüz olurum da,
   sensiz olamam...

   Gururlu kimseler kendileri için büyük üzüntüler yaratırlar. - Emily
   Bronte

   Birbirimize birkaç adım mesafelerdeyiz aslında ama aramızda
   kilometrelerce gurur var. - Cemal Süreya

   Özledim diyemiyorsam, gururumdan. Yoksa yüreğim yanmıyor değil... -
   İlhan Berk

   Gel desen gelirim, hadi git de ben giderim. Sevmesen de severim gurur
   benim neyime... - Kolpa

   Herkes herkesi aynı sevemez dostlarım; Kimileri gururunun yettiği kadar
   sever, kimileri de ömrünün yettiği kadar. - Charles Bukowski

   Ey zavallı insan, gurura, benliğe kapılma! Kar gibi yağıp yeryüzünü
   kaplasan da, güneşin varlığıyla yok olup gidersin. - Mevlana

   Ölüm var diyosun, korkuyla titriyor ya kalbin, o an herşeyi
   unutuyorsun. Yine sıcak gülümsüyorsun ona. Bir daha tutamazsam
   korkusuyla elini tutmasına izin veriyosun. Ve gururun aşkına yine
   yeniliyor. Ama kaybetmiş hissetmiyorsun...

   Mesela sen pişman olduğunu, hata yaptığını ya da özlediğini kendine
   bile söyleyemeyecek kadar gururlusun. Bak bu gurur seni öldürür.

   En çok düşündüğümüz kelimeyi en az kullanmaya bizi mecbur eden
   gururumuzu aldatmak için sevmek fiiline sözden başka ifade şekilleri
   ararız. - Peyami Safa

   İnsan acı çekmekten gurur duymalı, her acı yüksek düzeyimizin bir
   anısıdır. - Herman Hesse

   Bazı kapıları kapayın. Gururunuzdan dolayı değil, artık hayatınıza
   uygun olmadıkları için. - Paulo Coelho

   Çok şey kaybettik severken. Mesela gözyaşlarımızı, gururumuzu,
   güvenmeyi, gülmeyi, inancımızı, umudumuzu... Ama en kötüsü de, severken
   sevilmemeyi kazanmaktı...

   Onunla dakikalarca konuşmak istersin, sesini duymak istersin ama
   arayamazsın. Çünkü gururun el vermez. "İlk önce o arasın, o mesaj
   atsın" bahanesine sığınırsın. Sırf bu yüzden uykusuz olduğun geceler
   vardır hayatında...

   Bana gururlu şeyler söyle. Mutlu hikayeler, huzurlu güzellikler,
   bilirsin işte öyle şeyler. Umudu anlat, inancı... - Füruğ Ferruhzad

   O kadar emin adımlarla, o kadar gururlu ve bencilce yaşıyorsunuz ki,
   sanki daha önce hiç kimseyi kaybetmemiş, hiç pişman olmamış gibi.

   Son derece gururlu insanlar, Susmayı ve yalnızlığı sever. - Anton Çehov

   Bazı kadınlar gururludurlar, bir kere kırıldılar mı bütün kapıları
   kapatırlar...

   Şimdi gururlu ve mağrur bir şekilde uzaklaşma vakti. Zira kıytırık
   umutlar yaratıp mutsuzluğumu beslemenin alemi yok...

   İnsan "vazgeçtim" dediği an, hakkını vermelidir. Onurlu ve gururlu
   olmalıdır. Çünkü unutmak diye bir şey yok. Daha az hatırlamak var.
   Kimseye anlatamıyorsunuz sabahları uyandığınızda ne hissettiğinizi.

   Birçok kimseler, kendilerinde bulunduğu halde, başkalarındaki övünme ve
   gururu sevmezler. - Benjamin Franklin

   İçini titreten bir sevgiyi gurur yapıp görmezden gelme. Bak, tükenmez
   kalem bile tükenmekte.

   Eğer bir gün gururunu yenip, bana geri dönmek istersen sakın dönme,
   çünkü senin gururunun bittiği yerde benim gururum başlar.

   Hakiki aşk kılıç yarası gibidir, yara kapansa da izi mutlaka kalır. -
   Ahmet Altan

   Genellikle büyük yanlışların altında gurur yatar. - John Ruskin

   Gururunu sevdiğinle kaybetmek o sevdiğini gereksiz gururunla
   kaybetmekten iyidir. - John Ruskin

   Fazla gururlanma çocuk. Hayatı tek elimde tutar sıkarım diyen
   bakışların, henüz aşka denk gelmediğindendir!

   İnsan gururu yüzünden de alçak gönüllü olabilir. - Michel de Montaigne

   Gurur kıskançlık ve hırs insanların kalplerini ateşleyen üç ateştir. -
   Dante

   Gururlu bir insan ancak kendini bilen ve kendini büyük bir titizlikle
   sorgulayıp küçümseyen insandır. - Fyodor Mihayloviç Dostoyevski

   Gittin mi büyük gideceksin! Ayrılık bile gurur duyacak seninle... - Can
   Yücel

   Kolay mi sanıyorsun? Başkasıyla gözümün içine baka baka mutlu olduğunu
   görmek.

   Gururunu hiçe sayıp 'dön' demezsen her gün arkasından bakmakla
   yetinirsin. - Can Yücel

   Kurtulmuş olanlar gururdan kuruntudan, bağlanıp kalmayı yenmiş olanlar;
   nefis ile değil bütün ile uğraşanlar, değişmezliğe erer işte onlar. -
   Bhagavad Gita

   Yarın öleceğimizi bilsek, tüm kırgınlıklarımızı unuturuz. Ama biz
   sonsuza kadar yaşayacakmış gibi kırıcı ve gururluyuz...

   Sensiz yaşayabilirim ama onursuz yaşayamam.

--
   vazgeçecek değilim.

   En rağbette olan görüşlere o kadar inatla karşı konulması, zekâ
   kıtlığından değil, daha çok gurur yüzündendir. Doğru olan yolda, öndeki
   yerlerin tutulmuş bulunduğunu görürler de geride kalmaya razı olmazlar.
   - François de La Rochefaucauld

--
   aldatmak insan onuruna, ağlatmak ise insan yüreğine yapılmış en çirkin
   saldırıdır.

   Gururumuz olmasaydı, başkalarının gururundan şikayet etmezdik. -
   François de La Rochefaucauld

   Sanırım unutuyorum seni sevgilim. Yıkılası bir gurur yüzünden geçtim
   senden, benden, bizden, herkesten.

   Gurur, insanı mutluluktan uzaklaştırır. - Alphonse de La Martine

   Ama aşkta gurur olmaz derler, yalvarırım affet beni... - Rana Alagöz

   Kibir ve gururlulukla haddini aşanı, Cenab-ı Hakk yerden yere çarpar. -
   Hz. Ömer

   Hevesleri için kimse kimsenin gururu duyguları ile oynamasın. Bu
   toprağın üstü varsa bir de altı var unutulmasın. - Nicanor Parra

   Düşmanınıza zayıf gözükün. Gururlansın. - Sun Tzu

   Aşkta gurur olmaz diyenlere inanmayın. Kimse için kendinizden,
   gururunuzdan vazgeçmeyin. Onsuz doğdunuz onsuz yaşayabilirsiniz kimse
   vazgeçilmez değildir. Onu sevdiğiniz kadar kendinizi de sevin,
   kendinize zarar vermeyin. Yarına yaşayacağımız belli değil, hayatınızı
   yaşamaya bakın.</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-28">
<text>Kendi doğrularım başkalarına yanlış geliyor diye doğrularımdan va...

   ____________________
   Güzel Sözler >gt; Tüm Sözler >gt; Genel Sözler >gt; Gurur Sözleri >gt; Kendi
   doğrularım başkal...

Gurur Sözleri kategorisine ait olan Kendi doğrularım başkal... ile başlayan
söz aşağıdadır. Bu sözü sevdiklerinizle paylaşmayı unutmayın.😏

   Gurur Sözleri
   Kendi doğrularım başkalarına yanlış geliyor diye doğrularımdan
   vazgeçecek değilim. / Gurur Sözleri
   Sözü beğendiyseniz, daha fazlası için sizi şöyle alalım Gurur
   Sözleri❤️. Bu sözün bulunduğu kategori Genel Sözler💕 kategorisidir.
   Eğer 'çok bunaldım, biraz neşeleneyim' diyorsanız da sizi bu taraftan
   alalım resimli komik sözler😄. Biraz duygusal ve romantik takılmak</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-29">
<text>
Oğuz Atay Sözleri

Gurur İle İlgili Sözler

     *
     *
--

   [1551141696-87196.jpg]

   Sayfa İçeriği: Gurur İle İlgili Sözler, Gurur Sözleri, Gurur İle
   İlgili  Özlü Sözler, Gurur İle İlgili Güzel Sözler, Gurur İle İlgili
   Sözler Kısa, Gurur İle İlgili Sözler Uzun, Gurur İle İlgili Sözler
   Facebook, Güzel Gurur Sözleri

   Fazladan yapılan gururlar insana her zaman zarar olarak geri
   dönecektir. Gurur ile ilgili sözleri bu içeriğimizde sizler ile
   buluşturuyoruz. Facebook, İnstagram, Whatsapp vb. hesaplarınızdan gurur
   sözlerini paylaşabilirsiniz.
   [INS: :INS]

Gurur İle İlgili Sözler
     __________________________________________________________________

   Editör Seçimi: Herkes gurura sahiptir. Farklı olan, onu belli etmedeki
   vasıta ve tarzlardır. (La Rochefoucauld)
     __________________________________________________________________

--

   Kendini olduğundan az göstermek, tevazu değil, budalalıktır. Kendine
   değerinden az paha biçmek korkaklıktır, pısırıklıktır. Kendini
   olduğundan fazla göstermek de, çok defa gururdan değil budalalıktandır.

   Gurur, aslında bir ipotektir; üzerinde bulunduğu insanın kabiliyetinden
   tenzil edilmelidir ki, o kabiliyetlerin hakiki değeri meydana çıksın.
   Bismarck

   Gururuna yenik düşen insan hiçbir zaman başarıya ulaşamaz.
   [INS: :INS]

   Gurur, insanı mutluluktan uzaklaştırır.

   Gurur insanın düşüncesindedir, söze döküIen onun pek küçük bir
   parçasıdır. Montaigne

   Hiç kimseye gururla bakma, o da kendisine göre görkemlidir.

   Büyük görünme, küçülürsün.  Said Nursi

--
   istiyoruz.” (Reşat Nuri Güntekin)
   [INS: :INS]

   ”Büyük ve üstün insanın gururu yoktur ve ağırbaşlıdır. Küçük ise
   kendini beğenir ve ağırbaşlı değildir.” (Konfüçyüs)

   ”Düştüğüm kuyudan tırmanarak çıktım ben. Ne bir ip sallayan oldu, ne de
   bir el uzatan. Bu yüzdendir o herkesi kıskandıran gururum ve dik başlı
   asi durum!”

   Balıkların alışkanlıklarını, yıllar boyunca, rüzgarın her değişmesinde
   ağını nereye atacağını öğrenecek kadar gözlemleyen bir balıkçıya şanslı
   diyebilir misiniz? Şans, hazır olmadığını düşünen kişiler için zaman
   harcamayacak kadar gururlu bir tanrıçadır.

   Gurur, kıskançlık ve hırs insanların kalplerini ateşleyen üç ateştir.

   Parça parça olduğunu hissettiğin her anda gurur yapma, eğil ve
   parçalarını topla. Asla bir yerde bırakma. O zaman eksik yaşamaya
   başlayacaksın. Güvenmekte zorlanacaksın. Yeni başlangıçları
   kaçıracaksın. Parçalarını yolda bırakma.

   Yaşadıklarıma inanamıyordum. İki yıl içinde yirmi senelik yol almıştım
   sanki. İhtiyarlamıştım, yaralanmıştım, iki çocuk kaybetmiş ve ölümün
   eşiğinden dönmüştüm. Âşık olduğum kocamı, gururumu korumak için
   boşamıştım ve henüz yirmi iki yaşındaydım.
   [INS: :INS]

   Gururun en güzelinde bile bir suç kokusu vardır. (Nurullah Ataç)

   Aklı başında kişiler yeteneklerinden gurur duymazlar. (Harper Lee)

   Bence gurur insanlar arasında sıkça görülen bir kusurdur. (Jane Austen)

   Bizi asıl aldatan şey kendi gururumuzdur çoğu zaman. (Jane Austen)

   Gurur koltuk değneği gibidir; insanı yükseltebilirse de boyunu uzatmaz.
   (Montaigne)

   Kurtulmuş olanlar gururdan kuruntudan, bağlanıp kalmayı yenmiş olanlar;
   nefis ile değil bütün ile uğraşanlar, değişmezliğe erer işte onlar.
   [INS: :INS]

   Hiç kimseye gururla bakma, o da kendisine göre görkemlidir.

   Gurur insanın düşüncesindedir, söze dökülen onun pek küçük bir
   parçasıdır.

   Gururumuz oImasaydı, başkaIarının gururundan şikayet etmezdik.

   Gururun en güzeIinde biIe bir suç kokusu vardır.

   Gurur koItuk değneği gibidir; insanı yükseItebiIirse de boyunu uzatmaz.
   Montaigne

   BaşkaIarına karşı gururIu davranmak ne kadar güIünçse, kendimize karşı
   da o kadar yerindedir.
   [INS: :INS]

   Gariptir, ipeği yapan böcek değiI de; giyen kadın gururIanır.

   Ey İnsan Kaf Dağı kadar yüksekte oIsan da, kefene sığacak kadar
   küçüksün. Unutma her şeyin bir hesabı var; üzdüğün kadar üzüIürsün.

   İnsanın en önemli kişisel değeri gururdur.

   Gururumun kapısını utançla sürgülemiştim Aşkın baltası, ne kapı bıraktı
   ne süngü.

   Gururluyum diye havalanma, sendeki gurur olduğu yerde durur. Bendeki
   gurur seni yerden yere vurur.

   Birine ne kadar dürüst ne kadar samimi davrandıysam, incinen hep ben
   oldum. Ben yine de dürüstlüğümden asla vazgeçmedim ve bununla gurur
   duyuyorum.

   Kolay mi sanıyorsun? Başkasıyla gözümün içine baka baka mutlu olduğunu
--

   En vahşi vahşet, kendini beğenmektir. Hz. Ali (r.a.)

   Gurur, insanı mutluluktan uzaklaştırır. Alphonse de La Martine

   Gariptir, ipeği yapan böcek değil de; giyen kadın gururlanır. Cenap
   Sahabettin

   Hepimiz aynı boyda insanlar olduğumuz halde birbirimize tepeden bakmak
   istiyoruz. Reşat Nuri Güntekin

   Çocuklar önce kavga eder sonra tekrar beraber oynar, çünkü mutluluk
   onlar için gururdan daha değerlidir.

   Kimseden utanacak bir yüz taşımıyorum! Aşağı eğilecek bir baş
   taşımıyorum… İçi sevgiyle dolu yüreğim var. Kimseye verilecek bir
   hesabım yok. Sadece Allah’ın emaneti bir can taşıyorum.

   Birbirimize birkaç adımlık mesafelerdeyiz ve aramızda kilometrelerce
   gurur var.

   Sanırım unutuyorum seni sevgilim. Yıkılası bir gurur yüzünden geçtim
   senden, benden, bizden, herkesten.

   ”Kimseden utanacak bir yüz taşımıyorum! Aşağı eğilecek bir baş
   taşımıyorum… İçi sevgiyle dolu yüreğim var. Kimseye verilecek bir
   hesabım yok. Sadece Allah’ın emaneti bir can taşıyorum.”

   ”Ey insan! Daha ne zamana kadar giydiğinle gururlanacak, eteğini yerde
   sürümeye devam edeceksin? Üzerinde kibir ve gurur ile dolaştığın
   yerler, bir müddet sonra taşını, toprağını üzerine bindirecek, seni
   altında çeşitli azap ile kıvrandıracak, senin ağırlığının birkaç katı
   ile bağrını ezecektir.”
--
   ”Onurumu ayaklar altına alıp hayatı yaşamaktansa, hayatı ayaklarımın
   altına alır onurumla yaşarım.”

   ”Kime bu gurur? Say, ölenlerin yeri kaç karış… Ölümün ansızlığında
   kaybolur son yakarış…!” (Kadim Dolunay)

   ”Fazla gururlanma çocuk. Hayatı tek elimde tutar sıkarım diyen
   bakışların, henüz aşka denk gelmediğindendir!”

   Gurur insanın düşüncesindedir, söze dökülen onun pek küçük bir
   parçasıdır.

   Zihniyetimizi değiştirmeliyiz. Hareket eden, eylemci, sahip olmadan
   başaran, başarısıyla gururlanıp kendini üstün saymayan insan tipi
   yetiştirmeliyiz! Bunu başarmak ancak doğaya dönük; doğa, hayvan ve
   insan sevgisini aşılayarak mümkün olabilirdi. Ancak böylesi tüketim
   hırsıyla koşullanmış, gurur ve yarış üzerine kurulu toplumlarda
   düşündüklerini gerçekleştirmek hiç de kolay değildi ama olanaksız da
   değildi.

   Kibir; bele bağlanmış taş gibidir, Onunla ne yüzülür ne de uçulur.
   (Hacı Bayram Veli)

   Gurur, insanı mutluluktan uzaklaştırır. (Alphonse D. L. Martine)

   En değersiz gurur, milli gururdur. Bu, onunla gurur duyandaki bireysel
   özelliklerin yoksunluğunu ele verir. Çünkü insan neden milyonlarca
   insanlarla paylaştığı bir özelliğe tutunma gereği duyabilir ki başka
   türlü? Dikkate değer kişisel niteliklere sahip olan, sürekli göz önünde
   bulundurduğu ülkesinin hatalarını açıkça görebilecektir. Ama dünyada
   gurur duyabilecek hiçbir şeyi olmayan her zavallı aptal gurur
   duyabilmek için son çare olarak ait olduğu ülkesi ile gurur
   duyar.(Arthur Schopenhauer)

   Küçük insanların, büyük gururları olur.

   Gurur koltuk değneği gibidir; insanı yükseltebilirse de boyunu uzatmaz.

   En rağbette oIan görüşIere o kadar inatIa karşı konuIması, zeka
   kıtIığından değiI, daha çok gurur yüzündendir. Doğru oIan yoIda, öndeki
   yerIerin tutuImuş buIunduğunu görürIer de geride kaImaya razı oImazIar.

   İnsanın yüreğine az oIsun, çok oIsun bir defa kibir girecek oIursa, bu
--
   Kolay mi sanıyorsun? Başkasıyla gözümün içine baka baka mutlu olduğunu
   görmek.

   Dönsen kabul etmeyecek kadar gururlu gözüküyorum ama gel desen koşacak
   kadar adiyim aslında.

   Beni Seveceksen Gururunu Bırakacaksın bendeki Gurur Yeter ikimize.

   Gururumu Senin için Ayaklar Altına Aldım! Aldımda Ne Oldu? Yeniden
   Gururum Ve ben Kaldım!

   Ne garip. Bir insana vazgeçilmez olduğunu hissettirdiğinizde, ilk
   vazgeçeceği kişi siz olursunuz. Sigmund Freud
--
   kibir ne miktar girerse, aklı da o miktar da azalır. İmam Muhammed’ül
   Bakır

   Şimdi sen arasan, çok özledim desen ne olur ki gururuna?

   Dünya’da Türk kadar saygı bilir bir kavim daha yoktur. Türkler’de
   inzibat, büyüklere karşı itaat o derecedir ki, bizim keşiş (dini)</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-3">
<text>   Çanakkale Gündem
     *

   Ana Sayfa › Güncel › “Seninle Gurur Duyuyoruz”

“Seninle Gurur Duyuyoruz”

   Haber Merkezi
   TÜM YAZILARI
--
   giyilebilir “elektronik sütyen” icat eden, Türk bilim insanı Prof. Dr.
   Canan Dağdeviren de var.
   Çanakkale Belediye Başkanı Ülgür Gökhan listeye giren Dağdeviren için;
   “Başarıların daim olsun, seninle gurur duyuyoruz” diyerek destek verdi.
   Haber Merkezi

Bunu paylaş:</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-30">
<text>   Video
   Keşfet

   TDK Sözlük Gurur Ne Demek, Ne Anlama Gelir? Gurur Kelimesi TDK Sözlük
   Anlamı Nedir?

Gurur Ne Demek, Ne Anlama Gelir? Gurur Kelimesi TDK Sözlük Anlamı Nedir?

Kitap okurken film veya dizi izlerken ya da sohbet esnasında ilk defa
karşılaştığımız veya daha önce aşina olduğumuz kelimelerin anlamlarını merak
ederiz. Gurur kelimesi anlamı da bunlar arasında yer alır. Peki, Gurur
kelimesi ne demek, TDK’ya göre ne anlama gelir ve kelimenin kökü nedir? İşte,
Türk Dil Kurumu (TDK) bilgileri eşliğinde Gurur kelimesinin anlamı,doğru
kullanım örnekleri ve diğer tüm detaylar...

   Giriş: 04.12.2023 - 16:18 Güncelleme: 04.12.2023 - 16:18
--

   ABONE OL
   ABONE OL
   Gurur Ne Demek, Ne Anlama Gelir? Gurur Kelimesi TDK Sözlük Anlamı
   Nedir?
   ABONE OL
   ABONE OL

   Gurur ne demek ve ne anlama gelir soruları, edebiyatı sevenler,
   öğrenciler, öğretmenler daha önce duymadığı kelimeleri araştırmayı
   sevenler tarafından sık sık merak edilmektedir. Bilindiği gibi,
   Türkçede her kelimenin mutlaka bir anlamı vardır. Peki, Gurur ne demek,
   ne anlama gelir? Gurur kelimesinin kökeni nedir ve kaç farklı anlamda
   kullanılır? TDK'ya göre, Gurur kelimesi anlamı, cümle içinde kullanım
   örnekleri ve diğer detaylar haberimizde yer alıyor.

GURUR NE DEMEK, NE ANLAMA GELİR? GURUR KELİMESİ TDK ANLAMI

     * Kendini beğenme, büyüklenme, benlik, kibir
     * Övünme
     * Kurum, çalım

GURUR KELİMESİ CÜMLE İÇİNDE DOĞRU KULLANIM ÖRNEKLERİ

     * Aynı gururu, aynı gülünç itimadı aşkta da gösterirler.
     * Vatana gözyaşı döktünse eğer / Varlığın bu yüksek gururu anlar

GURUR SÖZCÜĞÜ KULLANILAN ATASÖZLERİ VE DEYİMLER

     * gurura kapılmak
     * gurur duymak
     * gurur gelmek
     * gururuna ağır gelmek
     * gururuna dokunmak
     * gururunu ayakaltına almak
     * gururunu okşamak

   Celep ne anlama gelir?
   Hipnoz ne anlama gelir?
--
   Maksimum ne anlama gelir?
   Gamze ne anlama gelir?
   İffet ne anlama gelir?
   #Gurur ne demek
   Şurada Paylaş!
     * facebook
     * twitter-x</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-31">
<text>   olduğunu biliyor ve kendisinde de görüyorsa, bunu değiştirir. Eğer
   iğrenç olduğunu biliyor, ama kendisinde göremiyorsa, gösterince belki
   değiştirir. Kibirliliğin iğrenç bir şey olduğuna inanmak bir tarafa
   bununla gurur duyuyor ve bununla övünüyorsa, onun değişmesi olanaksız
   gibidir.*

   Ø
--

   Ø

   Ø Gururlu bir yüceliğe erişmek isteyen ağaç fırtınalı hava ister.
   Yaratıcılık ve keşif de acıda saklıdır.

   Ø
--

   Ø

   Ø Gurur aptalın oyuncağıdır.

   Ø</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-32">
<text>Biyografi Sözleri Ağır Kısa

   Hayatın sillesini çok küçük yaşlardan itibaren yemiş kişiler, sosyal
   medya hesaplarında da bu durumu belli etmekten gurur duyarlar.
   Özellikle herkesin özel veya devlet üniversitesi yazdığı sosyal medya
   hesaplarındaki biyografi kısmına hayat okulu veya hayat üniversitesi
   yazan kişi sayısı da bir hayli fazladır. Ağır ve anlamlı ya da kasvetli
--
   konulu biyografi sözleri şunlardır:
     * Bana düşman olanlar her zaman zayıf noktamdan vurmaya kalktılar.
     * İnsanın iyi bildiği yaralar asla ikinci sefer kanamaz.
     * Senden sonra birini sevmeye korkar oldum. Eserinle gurur duy.
     * Dünkü tecrübelerinden öğren ve bugün için yaşa.
     * Eğer güneş gibi parlamak istiyorsan, önce güneş gibi alev alev
       yanman gerekecek.</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-33">
<text>
   HABERLERSpor HaberleriDiğer Haberleri

100. yıla yakışan gurur tablomuz: 2.302 altın + 2.445 gümüş + 2.230 bronz:
6.977 madalya

   Güncelleme Tarihi: Kasım 22, 2023 08:34
   #Spor#Osman Aşkın Bak#Amatör Branşlar
   TwitterLinkedinFlipboardLinki KopyalaYazı Tipi
   100. yıla yakışan gurur tablomuz: 2.302 altın + 2.445 gümüş + 2.230
   bronz: 6.977 madalya
   Oluşturulma Tarihi: Kasım 22, 2023 07:00
   TwitterLinkedinFlipboardE-postaLinki KopyalaYazı Tipi
--
   ALTYAPISINDA YAŞANAN ATILIMLAR VAR

   Gençlik ve Spor Bakanı Dr. Osman Aşkın Bak, sporcularımızın 2023
   yılındaki performansının gurur verici olduğunu belirterek,
   “Cumhuriyetimizin 100. yılında ülke olarak her alanda olduğu gibi
   sporda da tarihi başarılar elde ediyoruz. Sporcularımız katıldıkları
   tüm uluslararası organizasyonlardan madalyalar alarak dönüyor” dedi.</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-34">
<text>   düşüncesi
   Rasyonel ve İçgüdüsel Yaklaşımlar Yalnızca akılcı düşünmekle yetinmez,
   içgüdüleriyle de hareket ederler. -
   Hem Gururlu Hem Mütevazı olma Başarılarıyla gurur duyarlar ama mütevazi
   kalmayı, yardımlarını unutmamayı bilirler. -

   Herkesin hayatta rol model aldığı insanlar vardır, Steve Jobs, Mark
--
   Zaten insanı yapay zekadan ayıran da budur. Unutmayın kumandasıyla
   kendine komut verebilen tek robot insandır.

Hem Gururlu Hem Mütevazıdırlar

   İşinizle gurur duymak elbette başarı için bir gerekliliktir. Ancak
   başardığınız yerde başarınıza yardım edenleri unutmama
   mütevazılığını göstermek gerekir. Başarılı insanlar bulundukları
   yerlere geldiklerinde yanlarında olan insanlara karşı vefa duyarlar.
--
   gitmekten korkmazlar, aksine hatalarından ders çıkarırlar, Bernard
   Shaw'ın hataları saklamak düşüncesi, Rasyonel ve İçgüdüsel Yaklaşımlar,
   Yalnızca akılcı düşünmekle yetinmez, içgüdüleriyle de hareket ederler,
   -, Hem Gururlu Hem Mütevazı olma, Başarılarıyla gurur duyarlar ama
   mütevazi kalmayı, yardımlarını unutmamayı bilirler, -
   (BUTTON)</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-35">
<text>    1. ANASAYFA
    2. Sorularla İslam
    3. Fıkıh ve Günlük Hayat
    4. İslam’da Gurur ve Kibir Neden Yasaktır?

İslam’da Gurur ve Kibir Neden Yasaktır?

   Tarih: 19 Ekim 2018 Fıkıh ve Günlük Hayat

Gurur ve kibir nedir? Gurur ve kibir ile ilgili ayet ve hadisler nelerdir?
Gurur ve kibir hakkında kısaca bilgi...

   Gurur ve kibir; kendini beğenip diğer insanlardan üstün tutmak ve yine
   kendinden başkasını hor ve hakir görmektir. Birbirinden ayrılmayan bu
   iki çirkin huy, dünyada huzursuzluk, âhirette ise azap sebebidir.

--
   “İnsana günah olarak, Müslüman kardeşini küçük görmesi yeter.”
   buyurmuşlardır. (Müslim, Birr, 32)

   Âyet-i kerîmelerde, Cennet’e girmeye mânî olan “gurur” ve “kibir” gibi
   Cehennemî vasıflar hakkında şöyle buyrulmaktadır:

   “İşte âhiret yurdu! Biz onu yeryüzünde böbürlenmeyi ve bozgunculuk
--
   “Elbisesini kibirle yerde sürüyen kimseye Allah merhamet nazarıyla
   bakmaz.” buyurmuştur. (Müslim, Libâs, 42)

GURUR VE KİBRİN TARİHİ

   Gurur ve kibrin tarihi, İblis’ten başlayarak Nemrudlar, Firavunlar,
   Kârunlar ve Ebû Cehiller gibi nice ahmakların âleme ibret olan
   âkıbetlerinin bir sergisi mâhiyetindedir. Kur’ân-ı Kerîm’de, kibrin ilk
   temsilcisi olarak İblis gösterilmektedir. O, “Âdem’e secde et!”[2]
--
   Ebû Cehil ve emsâlleri de Resûl-i Ekrem Efendimiz’in nübüvvetini
   vicdânen kabul ettikleri hâlde, nefsâniyetleri sebebiyle inkâr
   etmişlerdi. Zira îmân ederek, o zamanlar ekseriyeti fakir ve kölelerden
   oluşan mü’minlerin safında yer almayı gururlarına yediremedikleri için
   budalaca bir inada sürüklenmişler ve:

   “…Bu Kur’ân, iki şehirden bir büyük adama indirilse olmaz mıydı?”
   (ez-Zuhruf, 31) diyecek kadar gurur ve kibrin gayyâlarına düşmüşlerdi.

   O müşrikler, Hazret-i Peygamber’in ebedî saâdet dâvetini ve getirdiği
   istikbâl haberlerini, teşekkür ve minnetle karşılayacakları yerde, -ne
   hazindir ki- gurur ve kibirleri yüzünden çok çetin bir inatla, yüz
   kızartıcı menfîliklerle, alay, hakaret ve iz’açlarla karşılamışlardı.

   Hadîs-i şerîfte şöyle buyrulmuştur:</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-36">
<text>   Kampanyalar
   Puan Kataloğu

   Ana Sayfa » Gurur

   banner

--
   [wh:e1418cf46]
   [wh:0b1972847]

   Gurur
     __________________________________________________________________

     * İç Sayfalara Gözat
--
          +
          +

Gurur

   Marsha Canham
   KORİDOR YAYINCILIK
--
   Yorumları Göster
   Bu kitaba link vermek için alttaki html kodu web sayfanıza
   koyabilirsiniz;
   <lt;a href="https://www.kitapyurdu.com/kitap/gurur/262125.html">gt; <lt;img
   src="https://img.kitapyurdu.com/v1/getImage/fn:199272/wi:85/wh:true"
   alt="www.kitapyurdu.com'dan satın al" border=0>gt;<lt;/a>gt;
   İlgili Ürünler</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-38">
<text>   [spacer.gif]
   [kurumlogo.gif]
   Bu Byk Aile le Gurur Duyuyorum
   [spacer.gif]
   Ana Sayfa Foto Galeri Bulunduu Klasr Geri leri
    /
--
   Anasayfa /
   Ba kan /

   Bu Byk Aile le Gurur Duyuyorum</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-39">
<text>   #Malumatfuruş » akışı Malumatfuruş » yorum akışı Malumatfuruş » Cemal
   Süreya’ya Atfedilen “Birbirimize Birkaç Adım Mesafelerdeyiz Aslında Ama
   Aramızda Kilometrelerce Gurur Var” Sözü yorum akışı alternate alternate
   alternate

   Malumatfuruş
--
   Doğrulama / Yanlışlama

Cemal Süreya’ya Atfedilen “Birbirimize Birkaç Adım Mesafelerdeyiz Aslında Ama
Aramızda Kilometrelerce Gurur Var” Sözü

   Buse Günay 11 Nisan 2021 3 dakika

“Birbirimize Birkaç Adım Mesafelerdeyiz Aslında Ama Aramızda Kilometrelerce
Gurur Var” Sözünün Cemal Süreya’ya Ait Olduğu İddiası Doğru Değil

   Yanlış İddia

--
   sözleri/ şiirleri incelemeye devam ediyoruz. Bugün, İkinci Yeni’nin
   önde gelen şairlerinden Cemal Süreya’ya (1931 – 1990) ait olduğu
   iddiasıyla paylaşılan “Birbirimize birkaç adım mesafelerdeyiz aslında
   ama aramızda kilometrelerce gurur var.” sözünü konu edeceğiz.

   Sözün muhtelif sosyal medya platformlarında Cemal Süreya’ya
   atfedildiğine şahit oluyoruz.


   Birbirimize Birkaç Adım Mesafelerdeyiz Aslında Ama Aramızda
   Kilometrelerce Gurur Var


   Birbirimize Birkaç Adım Mesafelerdeyiz Aslında Ama Aramızda
   Kilometrelerce Gurur Var


   Zaman zaman nazım biçiminde karşımıza çıkan ifade, tespit edebildiğimiz
--


   Birbirimize Birkaç Adım Mesafelerdeyiz Aslında Ama Aramızda
   Kilometrelerce Gurur Var


   Birbirimize Birkaç Adım Mesafelerdeyiz Aslında Ama Aramızda
   Kilometrelerce Gurur Var


   Daha evvelki incelemelerimizde belirttiğimiz üzere, bu minvaldeki
--
   derleme kitapta bahsi geçen söze dair hiçbir bilgi bulunmuyor.

   Kaynak olarak kimi internet sitelerinde İngiliz yazar Jane Austen’ın
   (1775 – 1817) Gurur ve Önyargı isimli romanı gösterilse de kitabın iki
   farklı tercümesinde yaptığımız taramalar sonucunda ifadeye dair
   herhangi bir ize rastlayamadık.


   aşk ve gurur birkaç adım mesafedeyiz


   Alabildiğine sade ve sıradan bir anlatıma sahip ifadenin, Cemal
--


“Birbirimize Birkaç Adım Mesafelerdeyiz Aslında Ama Aramızda Kilometrelerce
Gurur Var” Sözünün Cemal Süreya’ya Ait Olduğunu Zanneden Yazarlar

     * Reha Muhtar – Vatan – 9 Ocak 2016 – ““Bir gün ölürsem öldüğüm gün
       değil; doğduğum günü hatırlayın…”“</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-4">
<text>       Imagination and Reality. London-Boston: Faber&amp;Faber Press.
     * Roscoe, W. C. (1856). “W. M. Thackeray, Artist and Moralist,”
       National Review 2: 177-213.
     * Thackeray, W. M. (2006). Gurur Dünyası: Kahramanı Olmayan Roman.
       (Çeviren: N. Yeğinobalı. Ankara: İmge Kitabevi.
     * Yılmaz. V. B. (2012). “Nietzschean reading of Tom Murphy’s Play
       ‘The Sanctuary Lamp’ and Overcoming Nihilism.” Agathos, 3, (2),
       59-70.

Okur-Merkezli Eleştiri Bağlamında Thackeray’nin Gurur Dünyası Romanında Kadın
İkilemi Üzerine Bir Okuma

   Year 2020, Volume: 10 Issue: 2, 104 - 120, 31.12.2020
--

Abstract

   William Makepeace Thackeray, Gurur Dünyası: Kahramanı Olmayan Roman
   (1853) adlı romanında, Viktorya Döneminin “iyi” ve “kötü” olarak
   değerlendirdiği iki zıt kadın karakter yaratmış ve bu dönemdeki iyilik
   ve kötülük kavramlarını sorgulamıştır. Ancak bütün bu sorgulamasına
--
   karakteri yönünde mi, yoksa “kötü” kadın tipi olan canlı, asi ama
   çekici kadın karakteri yönünde mi olduğu belirsizdir. Thackeray’nin bu
   tavrı hemen hemen tüm romanlarında görülmesine karşın, en belirgin
   olarak Gurur Dünyası’nda, Rebecca (Becky) ve Amelia arasındaki ilişki
   boyunca ortaya çıkmıştır. Bu çalışmanın amacı, Thackeray’nin Gurur
   Dünyası romanında önemli roman kişilerinden biri olan Becky Sharp’ı
   yaşadığı toplumsal dilemmayı Okur-Merkezli Eleştiri merceğinden
   incelemektir. Çalışmanın ilk bölümünde, Thackeray’nin roman kişilerinin
   okura nasıl tanıtıldığı hakkında bilgi verilecek; ikinci bölümünde ise
   Becky Sharp adlı karakter ayrıntılı bir biçimde incelenecektir.
   Thackeray, Gurur Dünyası romanında yalnızca Viktorya İngiltere’sinde
   kadının yerini ve rolünü irdelemekle kalmaz başlıca kadın karakterleri
   Becky ve Amelia’nın hayatlarından yola çıkarak Viktorya Dönemi
   değerlerini de eleştirmektedir. Sonuç olarak, bu çalışmada öne
   çıkarılan fikir, Thackeray'nin Gurur Dünyası’nda 18.yüzyılın usta hiciv
   yazarlarından büyük ölçüde etkilendiği için 19. yüzyıl İngiltere’sinin,
   iyilik ve kötülük kavramlarını sorgulamasıdır.

Keywords

   William Makepeace Thackeray, Gurur Dünyası, Okur-Merkezli Eleştiri,
   Hiciv, Viktorya Dönemi

References
--
       Imagination and Reality. London-Boston: Faber&amp;Faber Press.
     * Roscoe, W. C. (1856). “W. M. Thackeray, Artist and Moralist,”
       National Review 2: 177-213.
     * Thackeray, W. M. (2006). Gurur Dünyası: Kahramanı Olmayan Roman.
       (Çeviren: N. Yeğinobalı. Ankara: İmge Kitabevi.
     * Yılmaz. V. B. (2012). “Nietzschean reading of Tom Murphy’s Play
       ‘The Sanctuary Lamp’ and Overcoming Nihilism.” Agathos, 3, (2),
--
Cite

   APA KAYA, H. (2020). Okur-Merkezli Eleştiri Bağlamında Thackeray’nin
   Gurur Dünyası Romanında Kadın İkilemi Üzerine Bir Okuma. Batman
   Üniversitesi Yaşam Bilimleri Dergisi, 10(2), 104-120.
     * Article Files</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-40">
<text>     *

   Son Dakika Haberler
   EğitimGurur Ne Demek, TDK Sözlük Anlamı Nedir? Gururlu Olmak Ne Anlama
   Gelir?
     * Paylaş:
     *
--

   HaberlerEğitim Haberleri

Gurur Ne Demek, TDK Sözlük Anlamı Nedir? Gururlu Olmak Ne Anlama Gelir?

   27.05.2021 - 14:45 | Son Güncellenme: 27.05.2021 - 14:45
   #Gurur Ne Demek#Gurur
   TwitterLinkedinFlipboardLinki Kopyala
   TwitterLinkedinFlipboardE-postaLinki KopyalaYazı Tipi

Gurur kelimesi kişilerce araştırılan önemli bir kelimedir. Gurur sözcüğü
genellikle günlük hayatta çok tercih edilebiliyor. Gurur sözcüğünün tam
olarak belirlenen doğru anlamı, araştırılan bilgilerden biridir. Gurur
sözcüğünün TDK'da bilinen anlamı kişilerin ilgi gösterdiği bir konudur.
Gururlu olmanın ne anlama geldiği de araştırılan bilgilerdir. Gurur ne demek,
TDK sözlük anlamı nedir? Gururlu olmak ne anlama gelir? Gurur sözcüğünü
sizler için detaylı olarak derledik.

   Gurur Ne Demek, TDK Sözlük Anlamı Nedir Gururlu Olmak Ne Anlama Gelir

   Gurur kelimesiyle ilgili kurulan çok fazla sayıda cümle bulunuyor.
   Gurur, kendini beğenme ve kibir gibi anlamları olan özel bir sözcüktür.
   İnsanlar tarafından çok tercih edilebilir.
   Gurur Ne Demek, TDK Sözlük Anlamı Nedir?
   Gurur kelimesinin merak edilen anlamları kişilerce araştırabiliyor.
   Gurur sözcüğünün TDK karşılığı da araştırılan bir bilgidir. Gurur
   sözcüğünün neyi ifade ettiği ve hangi anlamlarda kullanıldığı kişilerin
   merak ettiği konudur. Gurur, büyüklenme ve övünme anlamlarına sahip
   olan bir kelime türüdür.
   Gururlu Olmak Ne Anlama Gelir?
   Gururlu olmak, kişilerin kendini övmesi ve beğenmesidir. Gururlu olan
   kişiler her konuda her zaman kendini beğenir ve över.</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-41">
<text>     *

   Son Dakika Haberler
   GündemElektrik kesintisi, öğretmene birincilik getirdi: Gurur verici
     * Paylaş:
     *
     * Twitter icon
--

   HaberlerGündem Haberleri

Elektrik kesintisi, öğretmene birincilik getirdi: Gurur verici

   25.11.2023 - 12:05 | Son Güncellenme: 25.11.2023 - 12:08

--
sonrası öğrencilerin okula girmek için koşuşturmalarının yer aldığı
fotoğrafla birinci oldu

   Elektrik kesintisi, öğretmene birincilik getirdi: Gurur verici

   Terice Ortaokulu Müdürü Muhammet Recep Güneysu, Milli Eğitim Bakanlığı
   (MEB) tarafından 24 Kasım Öğretmenler Günü nedeniyle
--
   İLGİNİZİ ÇEKEBİLİRKar, fırtına, kuvvetli yağış bir arada! Meteoroloji
   uyardı: İstanbul, Ankara ve İzmir dahil 64 kent...Haberi Görüntüle

   Elektrik kesintisi, öğretmene birincilik getirdi: Gurur verici

   Elde ettiği birinciliği tüm öğretmenlere hediye ettiğini söyleyen
   Güneysu, "Mahallemizde elektrik kesintisi oldu. Biz de okulda manuel
--
   Tehdit ve şantajla suça sürüklendi
   İLGİNİZİ ÇEKEBİLİRTehdit ve şantajla suça sürüklendiHaberi Görüntüle

   Elektrik kesintisi, öğretmene birincilik getirdi: Gurur verici
   İlginizi Çekebilir
   Okul bahçesinde can pazarı Hüseyin öğretmen: İçimdeki hissiyatı
   anlatmam mümkün değil
--
   Öğretmenlik Meslek Kanunu hazırlığı
   Öğretmenlik Meslek Kanunu hazırlığı

   'BİRİNCİ OLMAK GURUR VERİCİ'

   MEB Öğretmen Yetiştirme ve Geliştirme Genel Müdürlüğü tarafından
   öğretmenlerin sanatsal etkinliklere katılımının teşvik edilmesi
--
   bende böyle bir fotoğraf çekme fikri uyandı. Denedik ve güzel bir
   fotoğraf çıktı ortaya. Eğitim ve öğretimin temel unsurlarından biri
   olan ders zili, tam anlamıyla yerini bulmuş oldu. Bakanlığımızın
   düzenlediği bir yarışmada birinci olmak gurur verici. Bu gurur ve
   mutluluğu tüm öğretmen arkadaşlarımla paylaşıyorum. Öğretmen Yetiştirme
   ve Geliştirme Genel Müdürlüğü tarafından Ankara Kızılay'da geçen salı
   ve çarşamba günlerinde sergi düzenlendi. Bu sergide Bakan Yardımcımız
--
   marka fotoğraf makinesi takdim edildi" diye konuştu.
   Haberin Devamı

   Elektrik kesintisi, öğretmene birincilik getirdi: Gurur verici


   EN ÇOK OKUNANLAR</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-42">
<text>   her yalancı gülüş somurtmandan iyi Konuşma baba bir kez dinle umutlarla
   beni

   Benle gururlanman gerek baba, gurur yapman değil Düşünme ben çok
   düşündüm anladım zamanla Kendi göz yaşlarımda boğuldum ağladığım
   zamanlar Sanki mutluluğa bir tren geçti durduramadım onu Yeter bir kez
   de olsa yanımda ol Ben bulamadım yolu Nasıl da yanıyor içim bu</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-43">
<text>
                                 [INS: :INS]

   Anasayfa/Güzel Sözler/Gurur Verici Sözler

Gurur Verici Sözler

   Nazlim KSon güncelleme: 4 Ağustos 2022
   1.628
   Gurur Verici Sözler

   Gurur verici sözler kısa 2022 sayfamızda gurur duyduğunuz bir anı
   ölümsüzleştirmek için yazılmış en güzel gurur sözleri bulabilirsiniz.
   Türkler ve atalarımız için yazılmış gurur verici sözlerde yine bu
   sayfamızda olacaktır. Buyurun gurur veren sözler;
   [INS: :INS]

   Sevgi için gururu ayaklar altına alacaksın bırak sevme, seveceksen
   gururunu ezdirme!

   Gururun en büyük düşmanı sevgidir. Bir zaman sonra ya gurur galip gelir
   yada sevgi.

   Gururumu senin için ayaklar altına aldım! Aldım da ne oldu? Yeniden
   gururum ve ben kaldım!

   Kalbimi aldın ruhumu sana adadım bedenimi seninle paylaştım ama
   gururumu ezdirmedim!

   Bir insanın doğduktan sonra öleceği son ana kadar sahip olduğu tek şey
   gururdur!

   Ben kendimi seviyorum hayatın beni sevdiği gibi. Seviyorum ben onurumu
   seviyorum asaletli gururum gibi seviyorum!

   Ben en güzel silahım gururum ne ayaklar altına alınır nede aciz insan
   gibi ayaklar altına aldırırım!

   Beni seveceksen gururunu bırakacaksın bendeki gurur yeter ikimize..

   Gururumla değil kalbimle sevdim seni şiddetimle değil gururumla korurum
   seni.

   Dünyada en kıymetli 2 şeyi çıkaramam içimden. Biri gururum biride
   kalbim yani sen. .

   Gururum ayaklarının altına alınmayacak kadar büyük aşkından geçemeyecek
   kadar küçük artık!
   İlgili Makaleler
     * Umut ile ilgili sözler
--
Mutluluk Sözleri
       2 Temmuz 2023

   Gururla gidiyorum inandığım yolda çıkamaz kimse yoluma. Benim adım
   artık gurur oldu. Şimdi herkes kendi yoluna.

   Gururumu senin için ezdim sevgin için mecnun oldum yollarda. Şimdi
   elimde yerlerde gezen gururum içimde parçalanan kalbim kaldı.

   Yeniden Seni Sevdim Diyebilmek Seninle yeniden Geleceğe Doğru Yürümek
   isterdim Ama Gururum Engel Oluyor.

   Ben hayatı kendimden karakterimi asil ve büyük gururumdan örnek alarak
   hayata başladım.

   İnsanın en önemli kişisel değeri gururdur.

   Her insan Gururu için Yaşar Gururu için Savaşır.

   Kibirli Olma Bana Karşı Gururumla Ezerim Seni.

   Biz Sosyetik Mekanların Havalı Artistlerinden Olmasakta Hayat
   Sokaklarının Gururlu gençleriyiz!

   Bizim Gururumuz Sizin 7 Ceddinizde Yoktur!

   Benimle Yarışma Gururumla Yarış benimle Savaşma Gururumla Savaş…

   Ben Ve Gururum Süper ikiliyiz.

   Hayattaki En Gurur Verici En Sevdiğim Şey Türk Olmam Ne Mutlu Türküm
   Diyene.

   Gururluyum Çünkü Türküm.

   Seni Kirlenmiş Sokakların Çamurlu Caddelerin kenarında Bıraktım
   Gururunla Başbaşa..

   Sanırım unutuyorum seni sevgilim. Yıkılası bir gurur yüzünden geçtim
   senden, benden, bizden, herkesten.

   Kurunun yanında yaş da yanar mı bilmem ama gururun yanında aşk da
   yanıyor.

   Bir insanın yaşayıp yaşamadığını atan nabzından değil, onurlu
   duruşundan anlarsınız.

   Fazla gururlanma çocuk. Hayatı tek elimde tutar sıkarım diyen
   bakışların, henüz aşka denk gelmediğindendir!

   Gitme! diyebilecek kadar güçlü olmalı insan çünkü, hiç kimse
   kaybettiklerini unutabilecek kadar güçlü değildir!

   Gururdan değil de artık canım yanmasın diye sana gelmiyorum..

   Kolay mi sanıyorsun? Başkasıyla gözümün içine baka baka mutlu olduğunu
   görmek.
--
   Sensiz yaşayabilirim ama onursuz yaşayamam.

   Birbirimize birkaç adımlık mesafelerdeyiz ve aramızda kilometrelerce
   gurur var.

   Gitme diyebilecek kadar güçlü olmalı insan çünkü hiç kimse
   kaybettiklerini unutabilecek kadar güçlü değildir!
--
   Aşkı avuçlarına bıraktım! İster üfle alev alsın, ister bırak köz
   kalsın. İstersen savur küllerini avuçların boş kalsın.

   Gururumu senin için ezdim, sevgin için mecnun oldum yollarda. Şimdi
   elimde yerlerde gezen gururum, içimde parçalanan kalbim kaldı.

   Ben hayatı kendimden karakterimi asil ve büyük gururumdan örnek alarak
   hayata başladım.

   Gururumla Değil Kalbimle Sevdim Seni Şiddetimle Değil Gururumla Korurum
   Seni.

   Çocuklar önce kavga eder sonra tekrar beraber oynar çünkü mutluluk
   onlar için gururdan daha değerlidir.

   Şükreden ol sabreden ol ama hiç bir zaman onursuz gurursuz olma.
   İnsanlığını asla unutma, dönüp baktığında arkana, başının dik olduğunu
   görmen yetecek sana.

   Düştüğüm kuyudan tırmanarak çıktım ben. Ne bir ip sallayan oldu, ne de
   bir el uzatan. Bu yüzdendir o herkesi kıskandıran gururum ve dik başlı
   asi durum!

   Seni kirlenmiş sokakların, çamurlu caddelerin kenarında bıraktım
   gururunla baş başa.

   Varsın hayat yalakalara şans tanısın. Ben onuruma fiyat biçmem.
   Yaşadığım kadar daha yaşasam, asla tüküreceğim eli öpmem!

   Yeniden seni sevdim diyebilmek, seninle yeniden geleceğe doğru yürümek
   isterdim ama gururum engel oluyor.

   Son derece gururlu insanlar, susmayı ve yalnızlığı severler.

   Bir insanın doğduktan sonra öleceği son ana kadar sahip olduğu tek şey
   gururdur!

   Gururluyum diye havalanma, sendeki gurur olduğu yerde durur. Bendeki
   gurur seni yerden yere vurur.

   Genellikle bütün büyük yanlışların altında gurur yatar.

   Aşkı avuçlarına bıraktım! İster üfle alev alsın, ister bırak köz
   kalsın. İstersen savur küllerini avuçların boş kalsın.

   Gururumun kapısını utançla sürgülemiştim Aşkın baltası, ne kapı bıraktı
   ne süngü.

   Birine ne kadar dürüst ne kadar samimi davrandıysam, incinen hep ben
   oldum. Ben yine de dürüstlüğümden asla vazgeçmedim ve bununla gurur
   duyuyorum.

   Beni unuttuğun kadar sevmedim seni çünkü namusun kadar genişlemez gurur
   çemberim.

   İnsanın en önemli kişisel değeri gururdur.

   Hiç kimseye gururla bakma, o da kendisine göre görkemlidir.

   Hz.MUHAMMED (S.A.V.)
   “Türkler size dokunmadıkça, onlara dokunmayınız””Sizler Türklerle
--

   Silah arkadaşım olmuş bu insanların sahip bulundukları yüksek namus ve
   şeref duygularını, engin şecaat ve sadakatlerini, üstün
   vatanseverliklerini gönlümde gururla muhafaza etmekteyim.”

   General TAVSHEND (Birinci Dünya Savaşında Irak Cephesi komutanı iken
   Türk ordusuna yenilerek esir düşmüş İngiliz Generali)
--
   “Türklerin tek sevdikleri şey haktır, gerçektir ve hiçbir haksızlık
   yapamadıkları halde haksızlığa uğramışlardır.”

   Evet sıra sizde: Sizde buradakilerden farklı ve yeni gurur verici
   sözünüzü yazmak için aşağıdaki yorum bölümünü kullanabilirsiniz.
   www.Nazlim.net

İlgili yazılar

    1. Gurur şiirleri
    2. Yeşim Salkım Gurur Şarkı Sözü
    3. Ceza Türkiye Sizinle Gurur Duyuyor Sözleri
    4. Kıymetli Sözler, Kısa Erdemli Sözler
    5. Can Yakıcı Sözler, Can Yakan Sözler

--
Neşeli Sözler

   18 Nisan 2021
   Gurur şiirleri

Gurur şiirleri

   20 Ekim 2021

--
    1.
   mehmet dedi ki:
       24 Temmuz 2013, 12:09
       Ben Ve Gururum Süper ikiliyiz.

Bir yanıt yazın</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-44">
<text>     * Özel Günler
     * Spor Sözleri

   Anasayfa / Özlü Sözler / Gurur Sözleri

Gurur Sözleri

   Gurur ile ilgili Sözler
   29 Ağustos 2018 09:30
   49 yorum
   (BUTTON) 1
   (BUTTON) 3

   Gurur Sözleri, Gururlu Sözler, Gurur Mesajları, Kibir Sözlerinin yer
   aldığı sayfamızda bulunmaktasınız, En Güzel Gurur ile ilgili Sözleri
   sevdiklerinle paylaş.

   Ben ve gururum süper ikiliyiz.

   Gururlu insanlar güçlüdür, mutlu değil.

   Küçük insanların, büyük gururları olur.

   Alçak yerdeki tepe, kendini dağ zanneder.

   İnsanın en önemli kişisel değeri gururdur.
   [INS: :INS]

   Bizim gururumuz sizin 7 ceddinizde yoktur!

   Gururuna sarıldığın kadar, bana sarılmadın.

   Sensiz yaşayabilirim ama onursuz yaşayamam.

   Kibirli olma bana karşı, gururumla ezerim seni.

   Her insan gururu için yaşar, gururu için savaşır.

   En vahşi vahşet, kendini beğenmektir. Hz. Ali (r.a.)

   Genellikle bütün büyük yanlışların altında gurur yatar.

   Şimdi sen arasan, çok özledim desen ne olur ki gururuna?

   Küçük işler, basit insanları mağrur yapar. W. Shakespeare

   Söylemek istiyorsan söyle. Hayat gururun kadar uzun değil.

   Hiç kimseye gururla bakma, o da kendisine göre görkemlidir.

   Son derece gururlu insanlar, susmayı ve yalnızlığı severler.

   Gururdan değil de artık canım Gurur Sözleri yanmasın diye sana
   gelmiyorum.

   Gurur, insanı mutluluktan uzaklaştırır. -Alphonse de la Martine

   Benimle yarışma gururumla yarış, benimle savaşma gururumla savaş.

   Beni seveceksen gururunu bırakacaksın bendeki gurur yeter ikimize.

   Gurur, duygularını saklamana yarar. Onları hissetmene engel olamaz.

   Gururunun esiri olan her insan, gözyaşlarını ömrünün sonuna saklar.

   Kurunun yanında yaş da yanar mı bilmem ama gururun yanında aşk da
   yanıyor.

   Gururunu her şeyin üstünde tutan, hiç bir zaman olgunlaşamaz. -George
   Fuller

   Olur da bir gün özlersen, başlatma gururuna
   https://www.neguzelsozler.com çık gel son nefesimizi vermeden!

   Birbirimize birkaç adımlık mesafelerdeyiz ve aramızda kilometrelerce
   gurur var.

   Gururun en büyük düşmanı sevgidir bir zaman sonra ya gurur galip gelir
   ya da sevgi.

   Bir insanın yaşayıp yaşamadığını atan nabzından değil, onurlu
   duruşundan anlarsınız.

   Sevgi için gururu ayaklar altına alacaksan bırak sevme, seveceksen
   gururunu ezdirme!

   Kibir, bele bağlanmış taş gibidir, Onunla ne yüzülür ne de uçulur.
   -Hacı Bayram Veli

   Gururum; ayaklarının altına alınmayacak kadar büyük, aşkından
   geçemeyecek kadar küçük artık!

   Sanırım unutuyorum seni sevgilim. Yıkılası bir gurur yüzünden geçtim
   senden, benden, bizden, herkesten.

   Fazla gururlanma çocuk. Hayatı tek elimde tutar sıkarım diyen
   bakışların, henüz aşka denk gelmediğindendir!

   Bazen her şeyi unutup, sadece sarılmak istersin; ama bir şey seni hep
   durdurur. Adı ne mi? Gurur. -Can Yücel
   Anlamlı Sözler
   Anlamlı Sözler

--
   user_avatar_
   @Mm 3 sene önce

   Bana daha etkili sözler lazım gururla ilgili
   31YANITLA
   user_avatar_
   @@@@💔💔💔💔 3 sene önce
--
   user_avatar_
   @Nuray 3 sene önce

   Fazla gurur g*te vurur demişti, babaannem...
   50YANITLA
   user_avatar_
   @Merve 3 sene önce
--
   user_avatar_21774
   @mor corapli kiz 4 sene önce

   Sende gurur olsaydı sen olmazdın
   30YANITLA
   user_avatar_21185
   @Sortac 4 sene önce
--
   user_avatar_
   @jelibon 5 sene önce

   Kalbimin beyni oldu gururum.
   10YANITLA
   user_avatar_
   @Ali 5 sene önce
--
   user_avatar_18893
   @Medine su 5 sene önce

   Söylemek istiyorsan şöyle. Hayat gururun kadar uzun değil (?):
   20YANITLA
   user_avatar_19044
   @HELINSUDOGAN1 5 sene önce

   Seviyorsan tam şu an mesaj at bence. Gurur kimseyi mutlu etmez.
   10YANITLA
   user_avatar_16611
   @Buse 51 5 sene önce
--
   user_avatar_
   @Özlem Esmer 5 sene önce

   Sevdiğin halde söylemiyorsan bu gurur değil kibirdir. Gurur ve kibir
   çok farklıdır. Seviyor ama sevilmiyorsan uzaktan sevmek gururdur.
   Sevilip söylemiyorsan gururdur.
   01YANITLA
   user_avatar_
   @Umut 5 sene önce</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-45">
<text>     *
     *

Gurur Sözleri | Aşk ve Gurur ile İlgili Güzel Sözler

   Haberler» SÖZLER
   AA
   Gurur Sözleri | Aşk ve Gurur ile İlgili Güzel Sözler
   18.04.201607:21

   Gurur sözleri içeriğinde gelmiş geçmiş en güzel gurur sözlerini
   bulabilirsiniz. Gururla ilgili etkileyici resimli sözleri bu yazımızda
   bulabilirsiniz.
   Haber güncelleme tarihi 21.09.2022 17:05

Gururla İlgili Sözler

   Gittin mi büyük gideceksin. Ayrılık bile gurur duyacak seninle.

   Tabi gerçek aşk pek az rastlanan bir şeydir, aşağı yukarı yüzyılda iki
   ya da üç kez görülür. Bunların dışında boş gurur ya da can sıkıntısı
   vardır.

   Yaralar çok olsa da ilaç olarak duan var. Sakın çaresizim deme duyan
--
   [INS: :INS]

   Bir insanın doğduktan sonra öleceği son ana kadar sahip olduğu tek şey
   gururdur!

   Gururluyum diye havalanma, sendeki gurur olduğu yerde durur. Bendeki
   gurur seni yerden yere vurur.

   Gururla İlgili Sözler

   O seni umursamazken herkese onu anlatırsın.

   Hiç kimseye gururla bakma, o da kendisine göre görkemlidir.

   Gariptir! İpeği yapan böcek değil de giyen kadın gururlanır.

   "Gurur insanın düşüncesindedir. Söze dökülen onun pek küçük
   parçasıdır."
   - Montaigne

   Gururla İlgili Sözler

   Son derece gururlu insanlar, susmayı ve yalnızlığı severler.

   Gururumla Değil Kalbimle Sevdim Seni Şiddetimle Değil Gururumla Korurum
   Seni.

   Kolay mi sanıyorsun? Başkasıyla gözümün içine baka baka mutlu olduğunu
--

   Sensiz yaşayabilirim ama onursuz yaşayamam.

   Gururla İlgili Sözler

   Ben hayatı kendimden karakterimi asil ve büyük gururumdan örnek alarak
   hayata başladım.

   Beni unuttuğun kadar sevmedim seni çünkü namusun kadar genişlemez gurur
   çemberim.

   İnsanın en önemli kişisel değeri gururdur.

En Güzel Gurur Sözleri

   Gururla İlgili Sözler

   Gurur gönül bağına atılmış bir kördüğümdür…

   Yazmaz… Çünkü gururu sevgisinden daha ağır.

   Çok sevdiğim biriyle aram kötü olunca “Ya yarın ölürse ya ölürsem” diye
   düşünüp gururumu sıfırlıyorum.

   “İmkansız” dedi gurur. “Riskli” dedi tecrübe. “Manasız” dedi mantık.
   “Yine de demeye değer” dedi kalp.

   Gururla İlgili Sözler

   Kendi doğrularım başkalarına yanlış geliyor diye doğrularımdan
   vazgeçecek değilim.

   Eğer bir gün gururunu yenip, bana geri dönmek istersen sakın dönme,
   çünkü senin gururunun bittiği yerde benim gururum başlar.

   Gururum ayaklarının altına alınmayacak kadar büyük aşkından geçemeyecek
   kadar küçük Artık!

   Birine ne kadar dürüst ne kadar samimi davrandıysam, incinen hep ben
   oldum. Ben yine de dürüstlüğümden asla vazgeçmedim ve bununla gurur
   duyuyorum.

   Gururla İlgili Sözler

   Genellikle bütün büyük yanlışların altında gurur yatar.

   Aşkı avuçlarına bıraktım! İster üfle alev alsın, ister bırak köz
   kalsın. İstersen savur küllerini avuçların boş kalsın.

   Gururumun kapısını utançla sürgülemiştim Aşkın baltası, ne kapı bıraktı
   ne süngü.

En Etkili Gurur Mesajları

   Gururla İlgili Sözler

   Yeniden seni sevdim diyebilmek, seninle yeniden geleceğe doğru yürümek
   isterdim ama gururum engel oluyor.

   Gururuna sarıldığın kadar, bana sarılmadın.

   Birine ne kadar dürüst ne kadar samimi davrandıysam, incinen hep ben
   oldum. Ben yine de dürüstlüğümden asla vazgeçmedim ve bununla gurur
   duyuyorum.

   Beni seveceksen gururunu bırakacaksın bendeki gurur yeter ikimize.

   Gururla İlgili Sözler

   Varsın hayat yalakalara şans tanısın. Ben onuruma fiyat biçmem.
   Yaşadığım kadar daha yaşasam, asla tüküreceğim eli öpmem!

   Düştüğüm kuyudan tırmanarak çıktım ben. Ne bir ip sallayan oldu, ne de
   bir el uzatan. Bu yüzdendir o herkesi kıskandıran gururum ve dik başlı
   asi durum!

   Seni kirlenmiş sokakların, çamurlu caddelerin kenarında bıraktım
   gururunla baş başa.

   Onurumu ayaklar altına alıp hayatı yaşamaktansa, hayatı ayaklarımın
   altına alır onurumla yaşarım.

   Gururla İlgili Sözler

   Kolay mı sanıyorsun? Başkasıyla gözümün içine baka baka mutlu olduğunu
   görmek.

   Çocuklar önce kavga eder sonra tekrar beraber oynar çünkü mutluluk
   onlar için gururdan daha değerlidir.

   Şükreden ol sabreden ol ama hiç bir zaman onursuz gurursuz olma.
   İnsanlığını asla unutma, dönüp baktığında arkana, başının dik olduğunu
   görmen yetecek sana.

   Gururla İlgili Sözler

   Gitme diyebilecek kadar güçlü olmalı insan çünkü hiç kimse
   kaybettiklerini unutabilecek kadar güçlü değildir!
--
   Aşkı avuçlarına bıraktım! İster üfle alev alsın, ister bırak köz
   kalsın. İstersen savur küllerini avuçların boş kalsın.

   Gururumu senin için ezdim, sevgin için mecnun oldum yollarda. Şimdi
   elimde yerlerde gezen gururum, içimde parçalanan kalbim kaldı.

   Gururla İlgili Sözler

   Birbirimize birkaç adımlık mesafelerdeyiz ve aramızda kilometrelerce
   gurur var.

   Fazla gururlanma çocuk. Hayatı tek elimde tutar sıkarım diyen
   bakışların, henüz aşka denk gelmediğindendir!

   Gitme! diyebilecek kadar güçlü olmalı insan çünkü, hiç kimse
   kaybettiklerini unutabilecek kadar güçlü değildir!

   Gururdan değil de artık canım yanmasın diye sana gelmiyorum..

   Kurunun yanında yaş da yanar mı bilmem ama gururun yanında aşk da
   yanıyor.

   Bir insanın yaşayıp yaşamadığını atan nabzından değil, onurlu
--

   Yanlış kalbe girdiysen, kalmasını değil, kalkmasını bileceksin.

   Sanırım unutuyorum seni sevgilim. Yıkılası bir gurur yüzünden geçtim
   senden, benden, bizden, herkesten.

En Anlamlı Gururlu Sözler

   Gururla İlgili Sözler

   Dönsen kabul etmeyecek kadar gururlu gözüküyorum ama gel desen koşacak
   kadar adiyim aslında.

   Benimle Yarışma Gururumla Yarış benimle Savaşma Gururumla Savaş.

   La Martin Bence insanlığa şeref veren Türk Milleti’nin düşmanı olmak
   insanlığın düşmanı olmaktan farksızdır.
--
   Altın olsam değerimi herkes bilir. Ben basit bir ‘Demir’ olayım.
   Değerimi sadece anlayan bilsin.

   Benimle Yarışma Gururumla Yarış benimle Savaşma Gururumla Savaş.

   Sevgi için Gururu Ayaklar Altına Alacaksan Bırak Sevme, Seveceksen
   Gururunu Ezdirme!

   Beni Seveceksen Gururunu Bırakacaksın bendeki Gurur Yeter ikimize.

   Kibirli Olma Bana Karşı Gururumla Ezerim Seni.

   Kalbimi Aldın Ruhumu Sana Adadım Bedenimi Seninle Paylaştım Ama
   Gururumu Ezdirmedim!

   Gururumla Değil Kalbimle Sevdim Seni Şiddetimle Değil Gururumla Korurum
   Seni.

   Yeniden Seni Sevdim Diyebilmek Seninle yeniden Geleceğe Doğru Yürümek
   isterdim Ama Gururum Engel Oluyor.

   Gururum Ayaklarının Altına Alınmayacak Kadar Büyük Aşkından geçemeyecek
   kadar Küçük Artık.!

   Gururla İlgili Sözler

   Gururun En büyük Düşmanı Sevgidir Bir zaman Sonra ya Gurur Galip gelir
   Ya da Sevgi.

   Seninle kavga ettikten sonra iştahım kesilirdi, en çok gururuma
   yediremezdim.

   Seni Kirlenmiş Sokakların Çamurlu Caddelerin kenarında Bıraktım
   Gururunla Baş başa.

   Gururumu Senin için Ayaklar Altına Aldım! Aldım da Ne Oldu? Yeniden
   Gururum Ve ben Kaldım!

   Her insan Gururu için Yaşar Gururu için Savaşır.

   Bir insanın Doğduktan Sonra öleceği Son Ana Kadar Sahip Olduğu Tek Şey
   Gurur’dur!

   Gururumla Değil Kalbimle Sevdim Seni Şiddetimle Değil Gururumla Korurum
   Seni.

   Gururumu Senin için Ezdim Sevgin için mecnun oldum yollarda Şimdi
   Elimde yerlerde gezen Gururum içimde parçalanan Kalbim Kaldı

   Gururla İlgili Sözler

   Ben Kendimi Seviyorum Hayatın beni Sevdigi Gibi Seviyorum ben Onurumu
   Seviyorum Asaletli Gururum Gibi Seviyorum!

   Ben En Güzel Silahım Gururum Ne Ayaklar Altına Alınır Ne de Aciz insan
   gibi Ayaklar Altına Aldırırım!

   Beni Seveceksen Gururunu Bırakacaksın bendeki Gurur Yeter ikimize..

   Dünyada En Kıymetli 2 Şeyi Çıkaramam içimden Biri Gururum Biride kalbim
   Yani Sen..

   Gururum Ayaklarının Altına Alınmayacak Kadar Büyük Aşkından geçemeyecek
   kadar Küçük Artık!

   Gururla gidiyorum inandığım yolda Çıkamaz kimse yoluma Benim Adım Artık
   Gurur Oldu Şimdi Herkes Kendi Yoluna.

   Yeniden Seni Sevdim Diyebilmek Seninle yeniden Geleceğe Doğru Yürümek
   isterdim Ama Gururum Engel Oluyor.

   Ben hayatı kendimden karakterimi asil ve büyük gururumdan örnek alarak
   hayata başladım.

   Gururla İlgili Sözler

   ‘Her Türk kendini aslan, düşmanını av, atını ceylan bilir.'”Türk
   korkmaz korkutur, bir şey isterse onu yapmadıkça vazgeçmez. Hangi işe
--
   bireyleri gibi yaşarlar ve dar şartlar içinde olsalar dahi
   yiyeceklerini kardeşçe paylaşırlar.

   “Ey insan! Daha ne zamana kadar giydiğinle gururlanacak, eteğini yerde
   sürümeye devam edeceksin? Üzerinde kibir ve gurur ile dolaştığın
   yerler, bir müddet sonra taşını, toprağını üzerine bindirecek, seni
   altında çeşitli azap ile kıvrandıracak, senin ağırlığının birkaç katı
   ile bağrını ezecektir.”</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-46">
<text>
     * Spor Haberleri
     * Futbol Haberleri
     * Servet Çetin'den Montella Sözleri: "Gurur Duydum Ama Yabancıya
       Karşıyım"

Servet Çetin'den Montella sözleri: "Gurur duydum ama yabancıya karşıyım"

Sivasspor Teknik Direktörü Servet Çetin, yabancı kuralı ve A Milli Futbol
Takımı'nın başına son dönemde yabancı teknik direktörlerin getirilmesiyle
--
     Flipboard

     Linki Kopyala
   Servet Çetin'den Montella sözleri: "Gurur duydum ama yabancıya
   karşıyım"

   Sivasspor'da Rıza Çalımbay ile yolların ayrılmasının ardından göreve
--
   SERVET ÇETİN: "YABANCIYA KARŞIYIM"
   Mevcut Yabancı kuralı ve A Milli Futbol Takım'da yabancı teknik
   direktör tercihine de değinen Çetin, yabancıya karşı olduğunu söyledi.
   Montella'nın yaptıklarıyla gurur duyduğunu ancak bundan bağımsız
   yerliden yana olduğunu kaydeden genç teknik adam, "Oyuncuyken de böyle
   düşünüyordum saha içinde de dışında da yabancıya karşıyım. Montella'nın
   4 maçta yaptıklarıyla gurur duydum. İnanıyorum ki EURO 2024'te çok iyi
   işler yapacak ama bunlardan bağımsız, yerliden yanayım." ifadelerini
   kullandı.</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-47">
<text>   #Pek Güzel Sözler » beslemesi Pek Güzel Sözler » yorum beslemesi Pek
   Güzel Sözler » Gurur İle İlgili Sözler yorum beslemesi Vurucu Sözler
   Dinlemek İle İlgili Sözler alternate alternate

     * Anasayfa
--

     * Güzel Sözler

Gurur İle İlgili Sözler

   by admin · 17 Ocak 2018
   Gurur İle İlgili Sözler

   Sayfa İçeriği: Gurur İle İlgili Sözler Kısa, Gurur İle İlgili Sözler
   Facebook, Gurur İle İlgili Yazılar, Gururla İlgili Sözler, Gurur İle
   İlgili Sözler Mevlana, Gurur İle İlgili Hadisler, Gurur İle İlgili Aşk
   Sözleri, Gurur İle İlgili Ayetler

   Her türden en güzel sözlerin yer aldığı bu güzel sitede şimdi de sizler
   için gurur ile ilgili güzel sözler hazırladık. Bu gurur ile ilgili
   anlamlı sözleri sosyal medyada paylaşın.

GURUR İLE İLGİLİ GÜZEL SÖZLER
     __________________________________________________________________

   Manşet: Mutlu olmak istiyorsan gururu bırak, gönüller almaya bak.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Büyük görünme, küçülürsün.  Said Nursi

   Âlimin afeti, kendini büyük görmesidir. İmam Gazâlî

   Küçük insanların, büyük gururları olur. Voltaire
   [INS: :INS]

   Küçük işler, basit insanları mağrur yapar. W. Shakespeare

   Alçak yerdeki tepe, kendini dağ zanneder. Şinasi

   Genellikle büyük yanlışların altında gurur yatar. John Ruskin

   En vahşi vahşet, kendini beğenmektir. Hz. Ali (r.a.)

   Küçüklerin büyüklük taslaması kadar, tehlikeli bir şey yoktur. Stefan
   Zweig

   Gururun en güzelinde bile bir suç kokusu vardır. Nurullah Ataç

   Hakiki aşk kılıç yarası gibidir, yara kapansa da izi mutlaka kalır.
   Ahmet Altan

   Gurur, insanı mutluluktan uzaklaştırır. Alphonse de La Martine

   Ne kadar az yüksekten uçarsan, düştüğün zaman o kadar az incinirsin.
   Konfüçyüs

   Hiç kimseye gururla bakma, o da kendisine göre görkemlidir. Genceli
   Nizami
   [INS: :INS]

   Gurur koltuk değneği gibidir; insanı yükseltebilirse de boyunu uzatmaz.
   Montaigne

   Gururunu her şeyin üstünde tutan, hiçbir zaman olgunlaşamaz. George
   Fuller

   Gurur insanın düşüncesindedir, söze dökülen onun pek küçük bir
   parçasıdır. Montaigne

   Gariptir, ipeği yapan böcek değil de; giyen kadın gururlanır. Cenap
   Sahabettin

   Bir insanla konuşurken, kendini yüksek görme; hırs ve şehvet, soğan
   gibi kokar.  Mevlânâ

   Gururunun esiri olan her insan, gözyaşlarını ömrünün sonuna saklar.
   Niyazi F. Eres

   Gururumuz olmasaydı, başkalarının gururundan şikayet etmezdik. François
   de La Rochefaucauld

   Kısa boyluların çoğu, kapıdan geçerken başlarını vurmamak için
--
   [INS: :INS]

   Birçok kimseler, kendilerinde bulunduğu halde, başkalarındaki övünme ve
   gururu sevmezler. Benjamin Franklin

   Ne garip. Bir insana vazgeçilmez olduğunu hissettirdiğinizde, ilk
   vazgeçeceği kişi siz olursunuz. Sigmund Freud

   Başkalarına karşı gururlu davranmak ne kadar gülünçse, kendimize karşı
   da o kadar yerindedir. François de La Rochefaucauld

   Bazen her şeyi unutup, sadece sarılmak istersin; ama bir şey seni hep
   durdurur. Adı ne mi? Gurur! Can Yücel

   Ey İnsan Kaf Dağı kadar yüksekte olsan da, kefene sığacak kadar
   küçüksün. Unutma her şeyin bir hesabı var; üzdüğün kadar üzülürsün.
   Mevlana

   Bir kimse ne derece yüksekten bakarsa, gurur sahibi ise, kalbinden
   insanlara karşı o kadar hiddet ve kin taşır. Lev Tolstoy

   Kurtulmuş olanlar gururdan kuruntudan, bağlanıp kalmayı yenmiş olanlar;
   nefis ile değil bütün ile uğraşanlar, değişmezliğe erer işte onlar.
   Bhagavad Gita

--
   Bakır

   En rağbette olan görüşlere o kadar inatla karşı konulması, zekâ
   kıtlığından değil, daha çok gurur yüzündendir. Doğru pekguzelsozler.com
   olan yolda, öndeki yerlerin tutulmuş bulunduğunu görürler de geride
   kalmaya razı olmazlar. François de La Rochefaucauld

--

    1. blank İbrahim CANDAN dedi ki:
       9 Aralık 2020, 23:50
       Gurur bazı basit insanlar tarafından onur algılanıyor.
       Cevapla

Bir cevap yazın Cevabı iptal et</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-48">
<text>
   ____________________

   Haberler Eğitim Haberleri Meslek lisesinin gurur veren başarısı:
   Küresel öğretmenin küresel öğrencileri
   Giriş Tarihi: 22.11.2023

Meslek lisesinin gurur veren başarısı: Küresel öğretmenin küresel öğrencileri

2018’de “Küresel Öğretmen Ödülü”nü alan Selçuk Arslan’ın meslek lisesi
öğrencileri de aynı yolda ilerliyor. Selçuk öğretmenin 3 öğrencisi,
--
takımdan biri oldu

   CEYDA KARAASLAN CEYDA KARAASLAN
   Meslek lisesinin gurur veren başarısı: Küresel öğretmenin küresel
   öğrencileri
     * ABONE OL
     *
--

   2018'de Hindistan'ın düzenlediği yarışmada Küresel Öğretmen Ödülü'nü
   kazanan, 2021'de de Global Teacher Prize yarışmasında dünyanın en iyi
   50 öğretmeni arasına giren Selçuk Yusuf Arslan'ın öğrencileri gurur
   veren bir başarıya imza attı. Türkiye'nin en prestijli fen ve Anadolu
   liselerinden kendisine teklif gelmesine rağmen meslek lisesinde eğitim
   vermek isteyen Arslan'ın çalışmaları meyvelerini verdi. Arslan'ın
--
   düzenlenecek finalde temsil etme hakkı kazandık. Proje ekibindeki
   öğrencilerimi tebrik ederim. Bu başarıları okuldaki diğer arkadaşlarını
   da cesaretlendirdi. Aynı zamanda proje ile sürdürülebilir bir dünyaya
   katkı sağlamaları da gurur verici" dedi.

     * Veri Politikası
     * İş İlanları
--
     * Kariyer

   ARKADAŞINA GÖNDER
   Meslek lisesinin gurur veren başarısı: Küresel öğretmenin küresel
   öğrencileri
   ____________________
   ____________________</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-49">
<text>
     * Sinemalar.com
     * » Listeler
     * » "Aşk ve Gurur" Sevenlerin İzlemesi Gereken 10 Film

"Aşk ve Gurur" Sevenlerin İzlemesi Gereken 10 Film

   Romantik dönem filmi denince akla gelen başyapıt "Aşk ve Gurur" a
   benzeyen filmler burada!

   Romantik dönem filmleri, bizlere zaman yolculuğu yaptırıp insanın o
   etkileyici atmosferin -ve romantik partnerlerin- etkisinde kendisini
   kaybetmesine neden olabiliyor. 2005 yılında sinemalara gelen "Aşk ve
   Gurur" da; harika kimyaya sahip oyuncu seçimleri, büyüleyici
   sinematografisi, akıllara kazınan naif müzikleri ve Jane Austen'ın
   eşsiz hikâyesi ile kısa süre içinde bir klasik hâline geldi.</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-5">
<text>       Yayınları.
     * Altman, A. E. (1994). Parody and poesis in feminist fairy tales.
       Canadian Children's Literature, 73, 22-31.
     * Austen, J. (2006). Aşk ve Gurur. İstanbul: Oda Yayınları.
     * Austen, J. ve Grahame-Smith, S. (2016). Aşk ve Gurur ve Zombiler.
       İstanbul: Domingo Yayınevi.
     * Aziz, A. (2014). Sosyal Bilimlerde Araştırma Yöntemleri ve
       Teknikleri (9. basım). Ankara: Nobel Akademik Yayıncılık.
--
       Sözlüğü-İstanbul-Multilingual.
     * Yıldırım, A. ve Şimşek, H. (2013). Sosyal Bilimlerde Nitel
       Araştırma Yöntemleri (9. Baskı). Ankara: Seçkin Yayınları.
     * Steers, B. (Yönetmen). (2016). Aşk ve Gurur ve Zombiler [Film].
       Erişim https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rzxv8EZ0zxE&amp;t=285s

Dil ve Edebiyat Öğretiminde Parodi: Aşk ve Gurur ve Zombiler

   Year 2020, Volume: 10 Issue: 1, 48 - 75, 25.03.2020

--
   yeniden üretme ya da uyarlama çalışmalarından yararlanılabilir. Parodi
   de bu
   çalışmalardan biridir. Bu bağlamda çalışmanın amacı, özgün yapıtla (Aşk
   ve Gurur) karşılaştırmalı olarak Aşk
   ve Gurur ve Zombiler romanı ile filminin parodik söylemsel
   görünümlerinin
   belirlenerek parodinin dil ve edebiyat öğretiminde kullanılabilirliğine
   ilişkin
--

Keywords

   Dil ve edebiyat öğretimi, parodi, Aşk ve Gurur ve Zombiler, eleştirel
   söylem çözümlemesi

References
--
       Yayınları.
     * Altman, A. E. (1994). Parody and poesis in feminist fairy tales.
       Canadian Children's Literature, 73, 22-31.
     * Austen, J. (2006). Aşk ve Gurur. İstanbul: Oda Yayınları.
     * Austen, J. ve Grahame-Smith, S. (2016). Aşk ve Gurur ve Zombiler.
       İstanbul: Domingo Yayınevi.
     * Aziz, A. (2014). Sosyal Bilimlerde Araştırma Yöntemleri ve
       Teknikleri (9. basım). Ankara: Nobel Akademik Yayıncılık.
--
       Sözlüğü-İstanbul-Multilingual.
     * Yıldırım, A. ve Şimşek, H. (2013). Sosyal Bilimlerde Nitel
       Araştırma Yöntemleri (9. Baskı). Ankara: Seçkin Yayınları.
     * Steers, B. (Yönetmen). (2016). Aşk ve Gurur ve Zombiler [Film].
       Erişim https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rzxv8EZ0zxE&amp;t=285s

   (BUTTON) Show All References (BUTTON) Show Less References
--
Cite

   APA ORYAŞIN, M., &amp; AK BAŞOĞUL, D. (2020). Dil ve Edebiyat Öğretiminde
   Parodi: Aşk ve Gurur ve Zombiler. Ordu Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler
   Enstitüsü Sosyal Bilimler Araştırmaları Dergisi, 10(1), 48-75.
   [5e7b454c665ab.png]</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-50">
<text>     * Zafer ve Kazanmak Sözleri
     * Zenginlik ve Para Sözleri

En Güzel Gurur Sözleri, Anlamlı Gurur Sözleri

En Güzel Gurur Sözleri, Anlamlı Gurur Sözleri

   Sayfa içeriği : Gurur İle İlgili Sözler Kısa, Gurur İle İlgili Sözler
   Facebook, Gurur İle İlgili Yazılar, Gururla İlgili Sözler, Gurur İle
   İlgili Sözler Mevlana, Gurur İle İlgili Hadisler, Gurur İle İlgili Aşk
   Sözleri, Gurur İle İlgili Ayetler Gurur Sözleri, Gurur İle İlgili
   Sözler, Gurur Mesajları, Gurur Lafları En Güzel, En Anlamlı Gurur
   Sözleri, Kibir Sözleri
   İnsanın en önemli kişisel değeri gururdur.
   Gururuna sarıldığın kadar, bana sarılmadın.
   Sensiz yaşayabilirim ama onursuz yaşayamam.
   Küçük insanların, büyük gururları olur. Voltaire
   Alçak yerdeki tepe, kendini dağ zanneder. Şinasi
   her insan gururu için yaşar gururu için savaşır.
   Âlimin afeti, kendini büyük görmesidir. İmam Gazâlî
   En vahşi vahşet, kendini beğenmektir. Hz. Ali (r.a.)
   Genellikle bütün büyük yanlışların altında gurur yatar.
   Küçük işler, basit insanları mağrur yapar. W. Shakespeare
   Hiç kimseye gururla bakma, o da kendisine göre görkemlidir.
   Son derece gururlu insanlar, susmayı ve yalnızlığı severler.
   Gururdan değil de artık canım yanmasın diye sana gelmiyorum.
   Gururun en güzelinde bile bir suç kokusu vardır. Nurullah Ataç
   Gurur, insanı mutluluktan uzaklaştırır. Alphonse de La Martine
   Yanlış kalbe girdiysen, kalmasını değil, kalkmasını bileceksin.
   Benimle yarışma gururumla yarış benimle savaşma gururumla savaş.
   Beni seveceksen gururunu bırakacaksın bendeki gurur yeter ikimize.
   Kurunun yanında yaş da yanar mı bilmem ama gururun yanında aşk da
   yanıyor.
   Gururunu her şeyin üstünde tutan, hiçbir zaman olgunlaşamaz. George
   Fuller
   Küçüklerin büyüklük taslaması kadar, tehlikeli bir şey yoktur. Stefan
   Zweig
   Gururumla değil kalbimle sevdim seni şiddetimle değil gururumla korurum
   seni.
   Seninle kavga ettikten sonra iştahım kesilirdi, en çok gururuma
   yediremezdim.
   Kolay mı sanıyorsun? Başkasıyla gözümün içine baka baka mutlu olduğunu
   görmek.
   Ne kadar az yüksekten uçarsan, düştüğün zaman o kadar az incinirsin.
   Konfüçyüs
   Gariptir, ipeği yapan böcek değil de; giyen kadın gururlanır. Cenap
   Sahabettin
   Birbirimize birkaç adımlık mesafelerdeyiz ve aramızda kilometrelerce
   gurur var.
   Hakiki aşk kılıç yarası gibidir, yara kapansa da izi mutlaka kalır.
   Ahmet Altan
   Bir insanın doğduktan sonra öleceği son ana kadar sahip olduğu tek şey
   gururdur!
   Gururumun kapısını utançla sürgülemiştim aşkın baltası, ne kapı bıraktı
   ne süngü.
   Dünyada en kıymetli 2 şeyi çıkaramam içimden biri gururum biride kalbim
   yani sen.
   Gurur koltuk değneği gibidir; insanı yükseltebilirse de boyunu uzatmaz.
   Montaigne
   Kendi doğrularım başkalarına yanlış geliyor diye doğrularımdan
   vazgeçecek değilim.
   Gururunun esiri olan her insan, gözyaşlarını ömrünün sonuna saklar.
   Niyazi F. Eres
   Seni kirlenmiş sokakların, çamurlu caddelerin kenarında bıraktım
   gururunla baş başa.
   Bir insanın yaşayıp yaşamadığını atan nabzından değil, onurlu
   duruşundan anlarsınız.
   Kalbimi aldın ruhumu sana adadım bedenimi seninle paylaştım ama
   gururumu ezdirmedim!
   gururun en büyük düşmanı sevgidir bir zaman sonra ya gurur galip gelir
   ya da sevgi.
   Gurur insanın düşüncesindedir, söze dökülen onun pek küçük bir
   parçasıdır. Montaigne
   sevgi için gururu ayaklar altına alacaksan bırak sevme, seveceksen
   gururunu ezdirme!
   Ben hayatı kendimden karakterimi asil ve büyük gururumdan örnek alarak
   hayata başladım.
   Bir insanla konuşurken, kendini yüksek görme; hırs ve şehvet, soğan
   gibi kokar. Mevlânâ
   Gururumu senin için ayaklar altına aldım! Aldımda ne oldu? Yeniden
   gururum ve ben kaldım!
   Gururum ayaklarının altına alınmayacak kadar büyük aşkından geçemeyecek
   kadar küçük artık!
   Gururumuz olmasaydı, başkalarının gururundan şikayet etmezdik. François
   de La Rochefaucauld
   Dönsen kabul etmeyecek kadar gururlu gözüküyorum ama gel desen koşacak
   kadar adiyim aslında.
   Kısa boyluların çoğu, kapıdan geçerken başlarını vurmamak için
   eğilirler.
--
   Değerimi sadece anlayan bilsin.
   Onurumu ayaklar altına alıp hayatı yaşamaktansa, hayatı ayaklarımın
   altına alır onurumla yaşarım.
   Gururluyum diye havalanma, sendeki gurur olduğu yerde durur.
   Bendeki gurur seni yerden yere vurur.
   Ben en güzel silahım gururum ne ayaklar altına alınır ne de aciz insan
   gibi ayaklar altına aldırırım!
   Hepimiz aynı boyda insanlar olduğumuz halde birbirimize tepeden bakmak
   istiyoruz.
   Reşat Nuri Güntekin
   Çocuklar önce kavga eder sonra tekrar beraber oynar çünkü mutluluk
   onlar için gururdan daha değerlidir.
   Sanırım unutuyorum seni sevgilim. Yıkılası bir gurur yüzünden geçtim
   senden, benden, bizden, herkesten.
   İsyanda olanların mahcup hali, benim için ibadette olanların mağrur
   halinden daha sevimlidir. Yahya Vâiz
   Yeniden seni sevdim diyebilmek, seninle yeniden geleceğe doğru yürümek
   isterdim ama gururum engel oluyor.
   Fazla gururlanma çocuk. Hayatı tek elimde tutar sıkarım diyen
   bakışların, henüz aşka denk gelmediğindendir!
   Birçok kimseler, kendilerinde bulunduğu halde, başkalarındaki övünme ve
   gururu sevmezler. Benjamin Franklin
   Bazen her şeyi unutup, sadece sarılmak istersin; ama bir şey seni hep
   durdurur.
   Adı ne mi? Gurur! Can Yücel
   Gitme diyebilecek kadar güçlü olmalı insan çünkü hiç kimse
   kaybettiklerini unutabilecek kadar güçlü değildir!
   Gururla gidiyorum inandığım yolda çıkamaz kimse yoluma benim adım artık
   gurur oldu şimdi herkez kendi yoluna.
   Ne garip. Bir insana vazgeçilmez olduğunu hissettirdiğinizde, ilk
   vazgeçeceği kişi siz olursunuz. Sigmund Freud
   Bеn kеndimi sеviyorum hayatın bеni sеvdigi gibi sеviyorum bеn onurumu
   sеviyorum asalеtli gururum gibi sеviyorum!
   Aşkı avuçlarına bıraktım! İstеr üflе alеv alsın, istеr bırak köz
   kalsın.
   İstеrsеn savur küllеrini avuçların boş kalsın.
   Varsın hayat yalakalara şans tanısın. Bеn onuruma fiyat biçmеm.
   Yaşadığım kadar daha yaşasam, asla tükürеcеğim еli öpmеm!
   Başkalarına karşı gururlu davranmak nе kadar gülünçsе, kеndimizе karşı
   da o kadar yеrindеdir. François dе La Rochеfaucauld
   Bir kimsе nе dеrеcе yüksеktеn bakarsa, gurur sahibi isе, kalbindеn
   insanlara karşı o kadar hiddеt vе kin taşır. Lеv Tolstoy
   Eğеr bir gün gururunu yеnip, bana gеri dönmеk istеrsеn sakın dönmе,
   çünkü sеnin gururunun bittiği yеrdе bеnim gururum başlar.
   Gururumu sеnin için еzdim sеvgin için mеcnun oldum yollarda şimdi
   еlimdе yеrlеrdе gеzеn gururum içimdе parçalanan kalbim kaldı
   Ey İnsan Kaf Dağı kadar yüksеktе olsan da, kеfеnе sığacak kadar
   küçüksün.
   Unutma hеr şеyin bir hеsabı var; üzdüğün kadar üzülürsün. Mеvlana
--
   Bakır
   Birinе nе kadar dürüst nе kadar samimi davrandıysam, incinеn hеp bеn
   oldum.
   Bеn yinе dе dürüstlüğümdеn asla vazgеçmеdim vе bununla gurur duyuyorum.
   Düştüğüm kuyudan tırmanarak çıktım bеn. Nе bir ip sallayan oldu, nе dе
   bir еl uzatan.
   Bu yüzdеndir o hеrkеsi kıskandıran gururum vе dik başlı asi durum!
   Kurtulmuş olanlar gururdan kuruntudan, bağlanıp kalmayı yеnmiş olanlar;
   nеfis ilе dеğil bütün ilе uğraşanlar, dеğişmеzliğе еrеr iştе onlar.
   Bhagavad Gita
   ‘hеr türk kеndini aslan, düşmanını av, atını cеylan bilir.’”türk
   korkmaz korkutur, bir şеy istеrsе onu yapmadıkça vazgеçmеz. Hangi işе
   еl atarsa başarır.’
   Şükrеdеn ol sabrеdеn ol ama hiç bir zaman onursuz gurursuz olma.
   İnsanlığını asla unutma, dönüp baktığında arkana, başının dik olduğunu
   görmеn yеtеcеk sana.
   En rağbеttе olan görüşlеrе o kadar inatla karşı konulması, zеkâ
   kıtlığından dеğil, daha çok gurur yüzündеndir. Doğru olan yolda, öndеki
   yеrlеrin tutulmuş bulunduğunu görürlеr dе gеridе kalmaya razı olmazlar.
   François dе La Rochеfaucauld
   Dünya’da türk kadar saygı bilir bir kavim daha yoktur. Türklеr’dе
--
   sınıfımız bilе onlardan örnеk alabilir. Türklеr bir tеk büyük ailеnin
   birеylеri gibi yaşarlar vе dar şartlar içindе olsalar dahi
   yiyеcеklеrini kardеşçе paylaşırlar.
   “Ey insan! Daha nе zamana kadar giydiğinlе gururlanacak, еtеğini yеrdе
   sürümеyе dеvam еdеcеksin? Üzеrindе kibir vе gurur ilе dolaştığın
   yеrlеr, bir müddеt sonra taşını, toprağını üzеrinе bindirеcеk, sеni
   altında çеşitli azap ilе kıvrandıracak, sеnin ağırlığının birkaç katı
   ilе bağrını еzеcеktir.”
   Etiketler : Gurur Sözleri, Gururlu Sözler, Gurur Mesajları Gurur
   Sözleri ile ilgili görseller Gurur ile ilgili Sözler Gurur ile ilgili
   Anlamlı Sözler Kibir ve Gurur Güzel Özlü Sözler Resimli Gurur Sözleri,
   İlgili, Gurur Sözleri Kısa, Gurur Sözleri Uzun, Gurur Sözleri Yeni
   Mesajlar Resimli Gurur Sözleri Resimli İndir Yeni Sözler İndir Gurur
   sözleri ve alıntıları Aşk ve Gurur sözleri ve alıntıları Aşk ve Gurur
   Sözleri ve Kitap Alıntıları
   Gurur Sözleri, Gurur Sözleri Facebook Paylaş, Gurur Mesajları
   Sosyete Travel ~ Sosyete Sözler ~ Sosyete Trend
   Facebook Twitter instagram Google+ Pinterest Youtube
   Hesaplarımızdan Takip Ederek Bize Destek Olunuz
   Kategorisi : Gurur Sözleri Mesajları
     *
     *
     *</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-51">
<text>    #Güzel Sözler,Aşk Sözleri,Anlamlı Sözler,Güzel Mesajlar » akışı Güzel
   Sözler,Aşk Sözleri,Anlamlı Sözler,Güzel Mesajlar » yorum akışı Güzel
   Sözler,Aşk Sözleri,Anlamlı Sözler,Güzel Mesajlar » Gururla İlgili
   Sözler Kısa Uzun Dini,Gurur Sözleri yorum akışı alternate alternate
   alternate

     * İnstagram Sözleri
--

     »

     Gururla İlgili Sözler Kısa Uzun Dini,Gurur Sözleri

   Gururla İlgili Sözler Kısa Uzun Dini,Gurur Sözleri Gururla İlgili
   Sözler Kısa Uzun Dini,Gurur Sözleri
     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * Google+
--
     * -
     *

Gururla İlgili Sözler Kısa Uzun Dini,Gurur Sözleri

   Gururla İlgili Sözler sayfamızda,Gururla İlgili Sözler Kısa,Gururla
   İlgili Sözler Anlamlı,Gururla İlgili Sözler Kısa,Onurlu Gururu Sözler
   ,Gururla İlgili Güzel Sözler,Gururla İlgili Dini Sözler,Gurur İle
   İlgili Sözler,Gurur Sözleri hazırladık.

Gururla İlgili Sözler Kısa Uzun Dini,Gurur Sözleri

   “Gururun en güzelinde bile bir suç kokusu vardır.” Nurullah Ataç
   [INS: :INS]

   “İnsanın yüreğine az olsun, çok olsun bir defa kibir girecek olursa, bu
--
   dallarını yere koyduğu için Allah onların meyvelerinin yükünü toprağa
   taşıtıyor.” Ahmed er-Rufai

   “Gururunun esiri olan her insan, gözyaşlarını ömrünün sonuna saklar.”
   Niyazi F. Eres

   “İsyanda olanların mahcup hali, benim için ibadette olanların mağrur
--
   Küstahlık, zayıf insanın güçlü görünme taklididir.
   [INS: :INS]

   Şimdi sen arasan, çok özledim desen ne olur ki gururuna?

   Kabiliyetsiz olmak bir kusur değildir. Ama karaktersiz olmak çok büyük
   bir kusurdur.
--
   dokunmayınız’”Sizler Türklerle savaşmadıkça kıyamet kopmaz’ Türk olan
   benim ordularımdır.’

   İnsanın en önemli kişisel değeri gururdur.

   Kalbimi Aldın Ruhumu Sana Adadım Bedenimi Seninle Paylaştım Ama
   Gururumu Ezdirmedim!

   Biz Sosyetik Mekanların Havalı Artislerinden Olmasakta Hayat
   Sokaklarının Gururlu gençleriyiz!

   Her insan Gururu için Yaşar Gururu için Savaşır.

   Hayattaki En Gurur Verici En Sevdiğim Şey Türk Olmam Ne Mutlu Türküm
   Diyene.
   Gururla İlgili Sözler,Gurur sözleri Gururla İlgili Sözler,Gurur sözleri
   Gururla İlgili Sözler

Onurlu Gururu Sözler

   Sevgi için Gururu Ayaklar Altına Alıcaksan Bırak Sevme, Seviceksen
   Gururunu Ezdirme!

   Gururla gidiyorum inandığım yolda Çıkamaz kimse yoluma Benim Adım Artık
   Gurur Oldu Şimdi Herkez Kendi Yoluna.

   Gururumu Senin için Ezdim Sevgin için mecnun oldum yollarda Şimdi
   Elimde yerlerde gezen Gururum içimde parçalanan Kalbim Kaldı.

   Gururumla Değil Kalbimle Sevdim Seni Şiddetimle Değil Gururumla Korurum
   Seni.

   Yeniden Seni Sevdim Diyebilmek Seninle yeniden Geleceğe Doğru Yürümek
   isterdim Ama Gururum Engel Oluyor.

   Seni Kirlenmiş Sokakların Çamurlu Caddelerin kenarında Bıraktım
   Gururunla Başbaşa.

   insanın en önemli kişisel değeri gururdur.

   Bir insanın Doğduktan Sonra öLeceği Son Ana Kadar Sahip Olduğu Tek Şey
   Gurur’dur!

   Gururum Ayaklarının Altına Alınmayacak Kadar Büyük Aşkından geçemeyecek
   kadar Küçük Artık!

   Ben Ve Gururum Süper ikiliyiz.

   Gururumu Senin için Ayaklar Altına Aldım! Aldımda Ne Oldu? Yeniden
   Gururum Ve ben Kaldım!

   Gururun En büyük Düşmanı Sevgidir Bir zaman Sonra ya Gurur Galip gelir
   Yada Sevgi.
   [INS: :INS]

   “Hiç kimseye gururla bakma, o da kendisine göre görkemlidir.” Genceli
   Nizâmî

   “Ey insan! Daha ne zamana kadar giydiğinle gururlanacak, eteğini yerde
   sürümeye devam edeceksin? Üzerinde kibir ve gurur ile dolaştığın
   yerler, bir müddet sonra taşını, toprağını üzerine bindirecek, seni
   altında çeşitli azap ile kıvrandıracak, senin ağırlığının birkaç katı
   ile bağrını ezecektir.” Zemahşerî
--
   Pinterest
   Linkedin
   Etiketler:
   Gurur İle İlgili Sözler Gurur Sözler Gururla İlgili Dini Sözler Gururla
   İlgili Güzel Sözler Gururla İlgili Sözler Anlamlı Gururla İlgili Sözler
   Kısa Onurlu Gururu Sözler
   Kibirle İlgili Sözler,Kibir Sözleri,Kibirli Sözler Kibirle İlgili
   Sözler,Kibir Sözleri,Kibirli Sözler</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-52">
<text>
   IFRAME: https://iddaa.sporx.com/web/scoreboard_iddaa.php

Montella: "Bu bir gurur meselesi!"

     * Spor Haberleri

--

     Sporx Ekstra

     Montella: "Bu bir gurur meselesi!"

   13

--
"HERKES N MUTLUYUM"

   "zellikle etrafmzdaki btn al anlar, bizi destekleyenler ve futbolcular
   iin ok mutluyum ve gururluyum nk lider olarak tamamladk grubu."
   \ (BUTTON) Getir
   10

"BURADA OLMAK GURUR MESELES"

   "Beni ilk gn ardklar andan itibaren ok gururlandm. Bu bayrak iin
   elimden geleni yapacam. Bu lke iin ne gerekiyorsa yapmaya hazrz. Burada
   olmak gurur meselesi."
   \ (BUTTON) Getir
   9</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-53">
<text>
Daha fazla ürün

Gurur Tekstil

   Gurur Tekstil erkek ve kadın giyim ürünlerini kullanıcı ile buluşturan
   ve kaliteyi bütçe dostu fiyatlarla bir arada sunmaya çalışan bir
   marka. Gurur Tekstil İstanbul'da başladığı yolculuğuna Trendyol
   güvencesiyle ürünlerini Türkiye'nin dört bir yanına ulaştırarak devam
   ediyor. Siz de Trendyol'da Gurur Tekstil mağazasının ürünlerini
   inceleyerek hem kendiniz hem de sevdikleriniz için birbirinden şık
   giyim ürünlerini sepetinize ekleyebilirsiniz. Tişörtten terliğe,
   sweatshirtten şapkaya hem günlük giyimde hem de özel gecelerinizde
   tercih edebileceğiniz birçok ürün Gurur Tekstil'in geniş koleksiyonunda
   sizlerle buluşmayı bekliyor.

Gurur Tekstil'in Birbirinden Şık Giyim Ürünleri Trendyol'da!

   Gurur Tekstil'in Birbirinden Şık Giyim Ürünleri Trendyol'da!

   Tişört, sweatshirt, hırka, mont, tayt gibi her tarza ve her ihtiyaca
   uygun giyim ürünleri Gurur Tekstil'in Trendyol mağazasında! Gurur
   Tekstil Columbia, Calvin Klein, Champion, Tommy Hilfiger, Adidas, Nike
   gibi birçok dünya devi markanın kaliteli ürünlerini kullanıcı ile
   buluşturuyor. Siz de sıcak havalarda teninizden kayıp giden yumuşacık
   kumaşıyla huzur yaratan ve nefes alan yapısıyla ferahlık vadeden Gurur
   Tekstil tişört modelleriyle rahatlığın keyfini çıkarabilirsiniz.
   Kaliteli kumaşıyla sıcacık dokunuşlar yaparken yumuşacık yapısıyla
   içinizi ısıtan sweatshirt modellerini inceleyebilir, onlarca renk ve
--
   ortamın yıldızı olabilirsiniz.

   Serin havalarda teninizde bıraktığı sıcacık etkiyle soğuklara meydan
   okuyan hırka modellerini de Trendyol Gurur Tekstil mağazası
   aracılığıyla keşfedebilirsiniz. Fermuar detaylı ya da önü açık hırka
   modellerini renk ve desenlerini inceleyerek sepetinize
   ekleyebilirsiniz. Soğuk havalarda dışarı çıkarken bir yandan vücut
   ısınızı korumak, diğer yandan da şıklığınızla göz kamaştırmak için
   Gurur Tekstil mont modellerinden faydalanabilirsiniz. Başınızı narin
   bir şekilde saran kapüşonları, bileklerinizi saran kafları ile sıcacık
   bir deneyimin keyfini çıkarabilirsiniz.

Gurur Tekstil Ayakkabı ve Terlik Modellerini Keşfedin!

   Gurur Tekstil Ayakkabı ve Terlik Modellerini Keşfedin!

   Gurur Tekstil Moon Boot, Birkenstock, UGG, Skechers, Converse,
   Champion, Dr. Martens, Adidas, Nike gibi ayak giyim söz konusu
   olduğunda akla ilk gelen birbirinden kaliteli markalara Trendyol
   mağazasında yer veriyor. Siz de Gurur Tekstil ürünleri arasında yer
   alan terlik ve ayakkabı modellerini inceleyerek ayak sağlığınızı
   korumak için önemli bir adım atabilirsiniz. Evde, bahçede, plajda ya da
   sokakta adımlarınıza keyif katarken ferahlık veren terlik modelleri
   sayesinde huzur dolu anlar yaşayabilirsiniz. Ayak tabanını yumuşacık
   dokunuşlarla kavrayan, darbe etkisini azaltan ve dengeli duruşu
   destekleyen Gurur Tekstil ayakkabı modelleri ile konforlu duruşunuzu
   şıklıkla buluşturabilir, kombinlerinizi nokta atışı bir ürünle
   destekleyebilirsiniz.

Gurur Tekstil Tayt ve Etek Modelleri ile Kombinlerinizi Tamamlayın!

   Yumuşacık kumaşıyla teni sıkı bir şekilde saran Gurur Tekstil tayt
   modelleri ile hatlarınızı en şık şekilde ortaya çıkarabilir, spor
   saatlerinize şıklık katabilirsiniz. Tayt modellerinin esnek yapıları
   sayesinde en zorlu egzersizlerde bile özgürce hareket etmenin keyfini
   çıkarabilirsiniz. Nefes alan tayt modelleri ile ağır egzersizleriniz
   sırasında çok daha ferah hissedebilirsiniz. Hem sportif faaliyetlerde
   hem de gün içerisinde giyebileceğiniz etek modellerini keşfederek
   tarzınıza en uygun ürünleri sepetinize ekleyebilirsiniz. Gurur Tekstil,
   geniş ürün yelpazesinde dünyaca ünlü markalar tarafından üretilen hem
   düz renkli hem de cıvıl cıvıl desenlerle süslenmiş etek modellerini
   kullanıcı ile buluşturuyor. Sadeliği şıklıkla buluşturan kombinler için
--
   modellerini tercih edebilirsiniz.

   Her tarza ve ihtiyaca uygun yüzlerce ürünü Trendyol güvencesiyle
   kullanıcıya sunan Gurur Tekstil fırsatlarından ve kampanyalarından
   haberdar olmak için mağazayı takip edebilirsiniz. Gurur Tekstil
   indirimleri ile sahip olmak istediğiniz ürünleri daha avantajlı
   fiyatlar karşılığında sipariş edebilirsiniz. Satın almak istediğiniz
   ürünler hakkında kullanıcı deneyimlerini öğrenmek isterseniz Gurur
   Tekstil yorumlarını okuyabilir, merak ettiğiniz bir detayı öğrenmek
   için Trendyol üzerinden Gurur Tekstil iletişim kanalını kullanarak
   satıcı ile irtibat kurabilirsiniz.

   Popüler Marka ve Mağazalar</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-54">
<text>   [OlimpiyatIsBankasiBannerBg-970x90.png]
   Futbol

"Türkiye sizinle gurur duyuyor"

Sporda günün öne çıkan gazete manşetleri...</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-55">
<text>
   Futbol

"Burada olmak gurur meselesi"

   22 Kasım 2023 Çarşamba 01:45 - Son Güncelleme 22 Kasım 2023 Çarşamba
   02:05  |  Kaynak : İHA

   A Milli Takım Teknik Direktörü Vincenzo Montella, "Bu ülke için ne
   gerekiyorsa yapmaya hazırız. Burada olmak gurur meselesi" dedi.
     * facebookta paylaş
     * [new-twitter.png]
     * [linkedin.png]
--
     * "Fener'in Firmino planı" "Fener'in Firmino planı"

   Sıradaki Haber
   Osman Aşkın Bak: Bizleri gururlandırdılar
   Yükleniyor lütfen bekleyiniz</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-56">
<text>    #Türk Dünyası Bilim ve Kültür Şenliği'nde Turgutlu'ya gurur yaşattılar

   Reklam

--
    1.
    2. Haberler
    3. GÜNCEL
    4. Türk Dünyası Bilim ve Kültür Şenliği'nde Turgutlu'ya gurur
       yaşattılar

   GÜNCEL
   23 Kasım 2023 - 16:44

Türk Dünyası Bilim ve Kültür Şenliği'nde Turgutlu'ya gurur yaşattılar

                                   Reklam

--
   Büyüt
   A
   Küçült
   Türk Dünyası Bilim ve Kültür Şenliği'nde Turgutlu'ya gurur yaşattılar

                                 [INS: :INS]

   Türk Dünyası Bilim ve Kültür Şenliği’nde Turgutlu’ya gurur
   yaşattılarTürk Dünyasının proje üreten gençleri, 6. Uluslararası Türk
   Dünyası Bilim ve Kültür Şenliği’nde bir araya geldi. Şenlik, 20-22
   Kasım tarihleri arasında Mamak Belediyesi Hidayet Türkoğlu Spor
--
   öğretmeni Murat Sayan, projeleri ile Manisa ilini temsil etti. Şenlikte
   3.’lük ödülünü almaya layık görülen Turgutlu Bilim ve Sanat Merkezi
   öğrencisi Bayram Ali Ekinci ve danışman öğretmeni Murat Sayan,
   Turgutlu’ya gurur yaşattı. [655f5748c69fd.jpg] Haber Merkezi

   ANASAYFAYA DÖNMEK İÇİN TIKLAYINIZ
   İlginizi Çekebilir</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-57">
<text>   02.11.2020 19:28:25
   Karışık Sözler

Sizi Alçakgönüllü Tutacak En İyi Gurur Sözleri

   Gurur, bir değerlilik duygusu olarak tanımlanır ve ilginç bir şekilde,
   bireyin kişiliği için hem zararlı hem de faydalı olabilir.
   Genel olarak, kendinle gurur duymak iyidir, çünkü kendinle gurur duymak
   özsaygını ve özdeğerini artıracak ve hatta belki de hedeflerine ulaşman
   için seni motive edecektir. Ancak, çok fazla gurur olumsuz olabilir,
   ünlü deyişi hatırlayın: "Gurur her zaman düşüşten önce gelir"?
   Çoğu gurur olumludur, örneğin çocukları üniversiteden mezun olduğunda
   ebeveynlerin hissettiği gurur gibi! Öyleyse, kendimizi kutlayalım ve bu
   kaliteyi mümkün olan en iyi şekilde tanımlayan en iyi gurur
   alıntılarının bu listesiyle gurur duymayı kucaklayalım.
   Admin
   Admin

--
   Profili Görüntüle
   Gönderim 2 yıl önce 2,731 Görüntüleme Güncelleme 2 yıl önce

   Sizi Alçakgönüllü Tutacak En İyi Gurur Sözleri

   Sizi Alçakgönüllü Tutacak En İyi Gurur Sözleri

Gurur İle İlgili Sözler ve Alıntılar

   Gururlu olmakla ilgili bu sözler ve alıntılar listesi, kontrol
   edilmeyen gururun ne kadar zararlı olabileceği ve yaptığınız şeyden
   gurur duymanın ne kadar önemli olduğu konusunda size bir fikir
   verecektir.

   1. "Bazı insanlar alçakgönüllülükleri içinde yaşamaktansa gururlarıyla
   ölmeyi tercih ederler .” - Anthony Liccione.

   2. "Gurur sende ölmeli, yoksa cennetten hiçbir şey senin içinde
   yaşayamaz.” - Andrew Murray.

   3. "Gurur bize açlıktan, susuzluktan ve soğuktan daha pahalıya mal
   olur.” - Thomas Jefferson.

   4. "Gururlu insan her zaman doğru olanı, büyük olanı yapmak ister. Ama
   bunu kendi gücüyle yapmak istediği için insanla değil, Tanrı ile
   savaşır.” - Soren Kierkegaard.

   5. "Gurur insanlar arasına duvarlar örer, alçakgönüllülük köprüler
   kurar.” - Rick Warren.

   6. "Britanya'nın kendi ulusal gururu konusunda büyük bir duygusu var.
   Monarşi bu gururun somutlaşmış hali gibi.” - John Lithgow.

   7. "Oğlumun beni çocuklarına hatırlamasını istediğim gibi kendimi tam
   olarak temsil etmekten gurur duyuyorum.” - Robert Downey jr.

   8. "Gurur sayesinde kendimizi hep aldatırız.” - Carl Jung.

   9. "Gurur ve aşırılık insan için felaket getirir.” - Xun Kuang.

   10. "Bir aktör olmaktan çok bir subayın kızı olduğumu söylemekten gurur
   duyuyorum.” - Anushka Sharma.

   11. "Gurur düşüşten önce gelir.” - Atasözleri 16:18.

   12. "Bazen gururun para kazanmaktan daha önemli olduğunu düşünüyorum.”
   - Kapıl Dev.

   13. " Benim ailemde alçakgönüllülük büyük bir erdem olarak kabul
   edilirdi . Hiçbir şekilde kendini beğenmişlik ya da kendini tatmin etme
   hali hoş görülmezdi. Sırtını sıvazlamak kesinlikle teşvik edilmezdi ve
   zevk ya da gurur ölümle cezalandırılırdı.” - Hugh Laurie.

Ünlü Gurur Kitabı Alıntıları

   İşte bazı ünlü 'Gurur ve Önyargı' alıntıları da dahil olmak üzere ünlü
   kitap ve romanlardan gururla ilgili en iyi alıntıların bir listesi. Bu
   kitaplar genellikle gururun hâlâ önemli olduğu bir zamandan bahseder.

   16. "Kibir ve gurur farklı şeylerdir, ancak kelimeler genellikle eş
   anlamlı olarak kullanılır. Bir kişi kibirli olmasa da gurur duyabilir.
   Gurur daha çok kendimiz hakkındaki görüşümüzle, kibir başkalarının
   bizim hakkımızda ne düşünmesini istediğimizle ilgilidir.” - Jane
   Austen, 'Gurur ve Önyargı'.

   17. "Ve sadece zekanın gururu değil, aynı zamanda zekanın
   aptallığıdır.” - Leo Tolstoy, 'Anna Karenina'.

   18. "İnsanlarla uğraşırken, mantık yaratıklarıyla değil, önyargılarla
   dolu, gurur ve kibirle motive olmuş yaratıklarla uğraştığınızı
   unutmayın.” - Dale Carnegie, 'Arkadaş Kazanma ve İnsanları Etkileme'.

   19. "Zorba, tiksindirici kadehinden pervasızlıktan ve kendini
   beğenmişlikten içen, tepeden tırnağa tepeden ümidin tozuna düşene kadar
   Gururlu bir çocuktur.” -  Sofokles , 'Oidipus Rex'.

   20. "Cehalet korkusu ve farkındalığı, aptal gurura karşı güçlü
   ilaçlardır.” - Garth Nix, 'Sabriel'.

   21. "Nefret edilen adam, nefret edenin vicdanından çok, nefret edenin
   gururunun sonucudur.” - Criss Jami, 'Diotima, Pil, Elektrik Kişilik'.

   22. "Gurur bize yardımcı olur ve gurur, bizi yalnızca kendi acılarımızı
   saklamaya, başkalarını incitmeye teşvik ettiğinde kötü bir şey
   değildir.” - George Eliot, 'Middlemarch'.

   23. "Tanrı'nın onlarla aynı fikirde olması gururlu bir dilektir.
   Tanrı'nınkiyle aynı fikirde olacak şekilde fikirlerini değiştirmekle
   ilgilenmiyorlar.” - Ezra Taft Benson.

   24. "Otuz dakika boyunca arkama yaslandım ve tarihsel olarak en feci
   düşüşlerden önce gelen gurur parıltısını hissettim.” - Antony John,
   'Aptalın Beş Tadı'.

   25. "Aşkın gururu yoktur.” - Karen Marie Moning, 'Yaylalı Öpücüğü'.

   26. "Birçok dindar insan gururdan muzdariptir: iyi veya dindar olmaktan
   zevk almak ve hatta haz almaktır.” - İdris Şah, 'Tasavvufi Düşünce ve
   Eylem'.

   27. "Gururlu değilim ama mutluyum ve mutluluk bence gururdan daha çok
   kör ediyor.” - Alexandre Dumas, ' Monte Cristo Kontu '.

   28. "Rowan bir an düşündü ve sonra, 'Hayatımda birçok kral tanıdım,
   Dorian Havilliard. Ve ihtiyacı olduğunda yardım isteyen, gururunu bir
   kenara koyan gerçekten ender bir adamdı' dedi.” - Sarah J. Maas,
   'Fırtınalar İmparatorluğu'.

   29. "Onu küçük düşürmeye çalışılmış. Başarılı olamamıştı. Ödemişti ama
   zevk gibi acının da süresi yoktu. Gurur daha kalıcı bir varlıktı.” -
   Jack Vance, 'Aşk Sarayı'.

   30. "Bir insanın gururu alın, onun kalbine bir bıçak saplasanız iyi
   olur.” - Julie Garwood, 'Merhamet'.

   14. "Aile babası olmaktan gurur duyuyorum. Saygılı ve çalışkan olmaktan
   gurur duyuyorum.” - Alexander Volkanovski.

   15. "Dışarı çıkıp bir şey yapmamı sağlamanın en hızlı yolu, bana hiçbir
   şekilde yapamayacağımı söylemektir.” - Evelyn Ashford.

Ünlü Kişilerden Gururla İlgili Alıntılar

   Şöhretin ardından genellikle bir gurur duygusu gelir. İşte bu kalite
   hakkında söyleyecek çok şeyi olan ünlü kişilerin gururla söylediği
   sözlerin bir listesi.

   31. "Her zaman gerçek olduğuna inanan ve kusurlarımı örtbas etmek
   yerine gururla kucaklayan biri oldum.” - Zareen Khan.

   32. "Gurur, gururun yüzüne tükürecek.” - Thomas Fuller.

   33. "Kimsenin benimle uğraşamayacağı gerçeğiyle her zaman gurur duyarım
   ve hayatım boyunca kimsenin benimle uğraşmasına asla izin vermem.” -
   Dean Ambrose.

   34. "En büyük gurur ya da en büyük umutsuzluk, kişinin kendi hakkında
   en büyük cehaletidir.” - Baruch Spinoza.

   35. "Gururun üstüne çıkmak güzel bir şey ama bunu yapabilmek için
   gurura sahip olmalısınız.” - Georges Bernanos.

   36. "Melekleri şeytana çeviren gururdu; insanları melek yapan
   alçakgönüllülüktür.” -  Su aygırı Augustine.

   37. "İyi bir arkadaş olmaktan gurur duyuyorum ve tüm arkadaşlarım bunu
   doğrulayabilir.” - Kyle Richards.

   38. "Gurur. Sahip olabileceğiniz yerde ona sahipsiniz.” -  Marilyn
   Fransız.

   39. "Gurur, bir insanın kendisini çok fazla düşünmesinden kaynaklanan
   zevktir.” - Baruch Spinoza.

   40. "Yoksul milletler aç, zengin milletler kibirli; gurur ve açlık her
   zaman çelişecektir.” - Jonathan Swift.

   41. "Güldü ve gururu asaletle karıştırma dedi.” - Brom, 'Krampus: Yule
   Lordu'.

   42. "Sanırım ne tür bir araba kullanırsak kullanalım, onunla her zaman
   rekabetçi olduğumuz için çok gurur duyuyorum. Bu, hayatım boyunca çok
   gurur duyduğum bir şey.” - Tony Stewart.

   43. "Hiçbir şey alçakgönüllülükle gurur duyan bir adamdan daha skandal
   olamaz.” - Marcus Aurelius.

   44. "Gururlu adamın Tanrısı yoktur, çünkü Tanrı'yı ​​yere indirmiş ve
   kendini kurmuştur.” - Benjamin Whocote.

   45. "Gençlerin kendi sesleriyle yazmayı öğrenmeleri gerektiğine
   inanıyorum. Tıpkı bir müzisyen gibi, kendine özgü bir sese sahip
   olmaktan gurur duyuyorsun.” - Terry McMillan.

Alçakgönüllülüğü Teşvik Eden Gurur Alıntıları

   İşte topraklanmış kalmanıza yardımcı olacak bazı güzel gurur
   alıntılarının bir listesi.

   46. ​​"Her tartışmanın arkasında birilerinin cehaleti yatar.” - Louis
   D. Brandeis.

   47. "Genel olarak, tüm büyük hataların temelinde gurur vardır.” - John
   Ruskin.

   48. "Gururlu insanlar kendileri için hüzünlü kederler beslerler. Ama
   çekingenliğinizden korkuyorsanız, o geldiğinde af dilemelisiniz.” -
   Emily Bronte.

   49. "Gururlu bir adam her zaman şeylere ve insanlara tepeden bakar ve
   elbette aşağı baktığınız sürece, üstünüzde olan bir şeyi göremezsiniz.”
   - C.S. Lewis.

   50. "Kendime karşı kazandığım zaferden çok daha gururlu buluyorum, tam
   da tartışmanın harareti içinde, düşmanımın akıl gücüne boyun eğdiğimde,
   onun aracılığıyla elde ettiğim zaferden memnun olduğumdan çok daha
   gururluyum.” - Michel de Montaigne.

   51. "Alçakgönüllülük hakikatten başka bir şey değildir ve gurur
   yalandan başka bir şey değildir.” - St. Vincent de Paul.

   52. "Dünyadaki sorunların çoğu, önemli olmak isteyen insanlardan
   kaynaklanır.” - TS Eliot.

   53. "Gururunuzu, egonuzu ve narsisizmi başka bir yerde bırakın. Bu
   taraflarınızdan gelen tepkiler, çocuklarınızın en ilkel korkularını
   pekiştirecektir.” - Dr. Henry Bulut ve Dr. John Townsend.

   54. "Gururumuz bizi mahveder ama nezaketimiz bizi ayakta tutar.” -
   Sipho P. Nkosi.

   55. " Kibir ruhu kesinlikle sizi parlatır. Kendi alnınıza parlak
   kırmızı bir hedef çizer.” - Criss Jami.

   56. "Gurur utancın zıddı değil, kaynağıdır. Gerçek alçakgönüllülük
   utancın tek panzehiridir.” - General Iroh.

   57. "... Müjde-alçakgönüllülüğün özü, kendimi daha çok düşünmek ya da
   daha az düşünmek değil, kendimi daha az düşünmektir.” - Timothy Keller.

   58. "Zenginler gururdan, fakirler açlıktan şişer.” - Sholom Aleichem.

   59. "Bazen gururunu birazcık yutman gerektiğini ve ne zaman bittiğini
   bilmen gerektiğini düşünüyorum.” - Jason White.

   60. "Gurur, zayıflığın itirafıdır; tüm rekabetten gizlice korkar ve tüm
   rakiplerinden korkar.” - Fulton J. Sheen.

   61. "Gurur bağımsız, ben odaklı bir ruhtur. İnsanları kibirli, kaba ve
   geçinilmesi zor bir ruhtur. Gönlümüz gururluyken Tanrıya itibar
   etmeyiz, insanlara kötü davranır, onları küçük görür, onlara kötü
   davranırız. sahip olduklarımızı hak ettiğimizi düşünürüz.” - Joyce
   Meyer.

   62. "Gurur, bir şeye sahip olmaktan zevk almaz, sadece bir sonraki
   adamdan daha fazlasına sahip olmaktan zevk alır... Sizi gururlandıran
   karşılaştırmadır: diğerlerinin üstünde olmanın hazzıdır.” -  C.S.
   Lewis.

   63. "Bütün insanlar hata yapar, ama iyi bir adam, yolunun yanlış
   olduğunu bildiğinde boyun eğer ve kötülüğü onarır. Tek suç gururdur.”
   -  Sofokles.

"Gurur ve aşırılık insan için felaket getirir.” - Xun Kuang.

   Image
     __________________________________________________________________

   Gururlu Sözler Kısa Gurur Sözleri Resimli Gururlu insan Sözleri

Tepkiniz?

--
   Yeni Yıl Kutlama Mesajı Videolu
   02.12.2019 21:11:52

     * Sizi Alçakgönüllü Tutacak En İyi Gurur Sözleri
     * Admin
     *
          + Facebook</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-58">
<text>   Premium'ı deneyin
   Oturumu başlat Üye Ol

   (BUTTON) GURUR

GURUR

   EnnurKarakol tarafından

GURUR

   İçindekiler
     * Tanıtım
--

   ŞİMDİ OKUDUĞUN

GURUR

   Romance

--

   [DEL: # :DEL] acı [DEL: # :DEL] ayrılık [DEL: # :DEL] aşk [DEL: # :DEL]
   din [DEL: # :DEL] dram [DEL: # :DEL] evlilik [DEL: # :DEL] genelkurgu
   [DEL: # :DEL] gençkurgu [DEL: # :DEL] gizem [DEL: # :DEL] gurur [DEL: #
   :DEL] haram [DEL: # :DEL] helalaşk [DEL: # :DEL] hüzün [DEL: # :DEL]
   ihanet [DEL: # :DEL] intikam [DEL: # :DEL] islam [DEL: # :DEL] islamic
   [DEL: # :DEL] mutluluk [DEL: # :DEL] müslüman [DEL: # :DEL] nefret
--
     * Share via Email
     * (BUTTON) icon warning Hikayeyi şikayet et

   GURUR Hikayelerin yaşadığı yer. Şimdi keşfedin
   (BUTTON) Oturumu başlat (BUTTON) Üye Ol

     * Wattpad Orijinal İçerikleri</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-59">
<text>   ____________________ Ara
   [yH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw==]

Gurur ve kibir

   [2010-12-08_104114.jpg]
   MUSTAFA CAN
--
   WhatsApp
   30 Temmuz 2014, Çarşamba
   Kendini büyük görme, başkasını hor ve hakîr görme, kendini beğenme
   anlamına gelen gurur ve kibir insan için en çirkin ve büyük bir kusur
   ve dinen mü’mini hak ve istikametten ayıran şeytanî bir aldatmadır.
   Ruhî bir hastalıktır. Şaşkınlığın istikametten ayrılmış olmanın
   alâmetidir.
   Bediüzzaman Said Nursî Hazretleri “Gurur ile insan maddî ve manevî
   kemâlat ve mehasinden mahrum kalır.” (Mesnevî-i, 2011, s. 106.) ifadesi
   ile gururun insanı her nevî kemalattan mahrum bırakacağını ifade
   etmiştir.
   Gurur kendisini başkalarından üstün görmeyi netice verdiği için (Ragıb
   el-Isfahani, Müfredat, 421.) iki katlı çirkin bir günahtır. Kişinin
   yaptıklarını sayarak gururlanmadığını söylemesi gurur alâmetidir. Zira
   yaptıkları ile övündüğü halde gururlanmadığını söylemek gururdandır.
   Böyle birisi uykuda rüya gördüğünü söyleyerek yorum isteyen adamın hali
   gibidir. Kendisini uyanık zannediyor, halbuki daha derin bir uykuya
   geçmiş önceki rüyasını yorumlatıyor.
   Kur’ân-ı Kerîm “Allah gururlananları sevmez.” (Nahl, 16: 23.) buyurur.
   Zira Allah’ın işini haksızlıkla kendisine maleden bir nevî hırsızdır ve
   hırsızlar da nefret-i ammeye mazhardırlar. Bu sebeple gururda bir nevî
   şirk-i hafi vardır. Bunun için Allah “yeryüzünde haksız yere büyüklük
   taslayanların yüzünü âyetlerimizden çevireceğim. Onlar bütün âyetlerimi
   görseler de inanmazlar, doğru yolu kendisine gösterseniz de onu yol
--
   hemen ona koşarlar. Biz de onların yaptıkları iyiliklerini de boşa
   çıkartırız da her şeyden mahrum kalırlar.” (A’raf Sûresi, 7: 146-147.)
   buyurur.
   Şeytanın yoldan çıkması gurur yüzünden olduğu gibi Mekke müşriklerinin
   iman etmemelerinin sebebi de gurur ve kibirlerindendir. (Nahl Sûresi,
   16:22; Sâffât Sûresi, 37:35; Bakara Sûresi, 2:87) tevazu göstererek hak
   ve hakikate kimden ve nereden gelirse gelsin değer vermiş olsalardı
   hidayete ererlerdi.
--
   Her şey Allah’ın ihsanı, ikramı ve istifadesi de onun ihsanı olduğu
   için sahiplenmeyecek hayvan gibi yutmayacak, mütevaziyane insan gibi
   hayırda istimal edecektir. Bu sebeple Peygamberimiz (asm) “Allah tevazu
   göstereni yüceltir, kibir ve gurura kapılanı ise küçültür.” (İhya,
   1:257.) buyurmuşlardır. Yine “Kalbinde hardal tanesi kadar kibir
   bulunan hiçbir kimse cennete giremez” (Müslim, İman, 147, 148, 149; Ebû
   Dâvud, Libâs, 26; Tirmizi, Birr, 610; İbn Mâce Mukaddime, 9; Zühd, 16.)
--
   oğluyum.” diyerek o kişiyi teskin etti. Yemek yerken iki dizi üzerinde
   yer ve “Ben kölenin yediği gibi yer ve kölenin oturduğu gibi otururum.”
   buyururlardı.
   Bu sebeple Peygamberimizin (asm) Mekke’yi fethettiği zaman gururlandığı
   iddiası büyük bir iftiradır. Tarih Mekke Fethini şöyle anlatır:
   “Peygamberimiz (asm) devesi Kasvâ’nın üzerindeydi. Mübarek başında
   yemen işi siyah bir sarık vardı. Sarığın bir ucunu iki omuzu arasına
--
   edememenin verdiği eziklik içinde bir kul gibi Mekke’ye giriyordu.
   Tevazusundan omuzlarını eğdiği için neredeyse mübarek sakalı devesinin
   semerine değiverecek gibiydi.” (İki Cihan Güneşi, 371.)
   Gururdan Kurtulmanın Yolu
   Gurur bu derece tehlikeli bir hastalıktır. Ondan kurtulmak da ancak
   iman-ı takiki, ilim ve amelledir. Bu sebeple ilimden ve amelden daha
   değerli bir şey yoktur. İlim dediğimiz zaman bundan “Marifetullah” yani
   Allah’ı bilme ve tanımayı anlamamız lâzım. Zira bütün ilimlerin amacı
--
   geçirerek, ona şekil vermiş, sonra tutacağı yolu kolaylaştırmıştır.
   Sonra onu öldürür ve kabre koyar.” (Abese Sûresi, 80: 17-22.) buyurarak
   haddini bilmeye dâvet etmiştir.
   Soy ve güzellik, mal ve ilim gibi insanı gururlanmaya iten sebeplere
   karşı da onların gelip geçici ve insanı sorumluluğa iten sebeplerin
   mahiyetini bilmek de insanı bu nevî şeylerle övünmek ve gururlanmaktan
   alıkor. Bu hususta da Kur’ân-ı Kerîm “İnsanları küçümseyip yüz çevirme,
   yeryüzünde böbürlenerek yürüme; Allah, kendini beğenip övünen hiç
   kimseyi sevmez. Yürüyüşünde tabiî ol, sesini de alçalt. “ (Lokman
   Sûresi, 31: 18.) buyurarak ikaz eder ve bunları yapmanın gururu
   kıracağı ve insanı tevazuya sevk edeceğini haber verir.
   Özetle, gurur ve kibir Allah’tan korkan sâlih bir Müslümanda
   bulunmaması gereken, mü’mine yakışmayan en kötü huylardandır. Allah
   bizleri bu gibi kötü huylardan korusun... Amin!
   Okunma Sayısı: 11263
--

Son Yazıları

Gurur ve kibir

   30 Temmuz 2014 Çarşamba</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-6">
<text>       Learning”, Engineering Education, 77(7) 291-196.

Öğrencileri ‘Tarihin Mimarları’ Kılma Süreci Olarak Tarihsel Maketler ve
İşlevleri: “Araştırıyorum, Uyguluyorum, Kendimle Gurur Duyuyorum”

   Year 2014, Volume: 4 Issue: 1, 63 - 80, 01.03.2014

--

   APA Kabapınar, Y., &amp; Sargın, T. (2014). Öğrencileri ‘Tarihin Mimarları’
   Kılma Süreci Olarak Tarihsel Maketler ve İşlevleri: “Araştırıyorum,
   Uyguluyorum, Kendimle Gurur Duyuyorum”. Trakya Üniversitesi Eğitim
   Fakültesi Dergisi, 4(1), 63-80.
   AMA Kabapınar Y, Sargın T.Öğrencileri ‘Tarihin Mimarları’ Kılma Süreci
   Olarak Tarihsel Maketler ve İşlevleri: “Araştırıyorum, Uyguluyorum,
   Kendimle Gurur Duyuyorum.” Trakya Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi
   Dergisi. March 2014;4(1):63-80.
   Chicago Kabapınar, Yücel, and Tuğba Sargın. “Öğrencileri ‘Tarihin
   Mimarları’ Kılma Süreci Olarak Tarihsel Maketler Ve İşlevleri:
   ‘Araştırıyorum, Uyguluyorum, Kendimle Gurur Duyuyorum’”. Trakya
   Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi 4, no. 1 (March 2014): 63-80.
   EndNote Kabapınar Y, Sargın T (March 1, 2014) Öğrencileri ‘Tarihin
   Mimarları’ Kılma Süreci Olarak Tarihsel Maketler ve İşlevleri:
   “Araştırıyorum, Uyguluyorum, Kendimle Gurur Duyuyorum”. Trakya
   Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi 4 1 63–80.
   IEEE Y. Kabapınar and T. Sargın, “Öğrencileri ‘Tarihin Mimarları’ Kılma
   Süreci Olarak Tarihsel Maketler ve İşlevleri: ‘Araştırıyorum,
   Uyguluyorum, Kendimle Gurur Duyuyorum’”, Trakya Üniversitesi Eğitim
   Fakültesi Dergisi, vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 63–80, 2014.
   ISNAD Kabapınar, Yücel - Sargın, Tuğba. “Öğrencileri ‘Tarihin
   Mimarları’ Kılma Süreci Olarak Tarihsel Maketler Ve İşlevleri:
   ‘Araştırıyorum, Uyguluyorum, Kendimle Gurur Duyuyorum’”. Trakya
   Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi 4/1 (March 2014), 63-80.
   JAMA Kabapınar Y, Sargın T. Öğrencileri ‘Tarihin Mimarları’ Kılma
   Süreci Olarak Tarihsel Maketler ve İşlevleri: “Araştırıyorum,
   Uyguluyorum, Kendimle Gurur Duyuyorum”. Trakya Üniversitesi Eğitim
   Fakültesi Dergisi. 2014;4:63–80.
   MLA Kabapınar, Yücel and Tuğba Sargın. “Öğrencileri ‘Tarihin Mimarları’
   Kılma Süreci Olarak Tarihsel Maketler Ve İşlevleri: ‘Araştırıyorum,
   Uyguluyorum, Kendimle Gurur Duyuyorum’”. Trakya Üniversitesi Eğitim
   Fakültesi Dergisi, vol. 4, no. 1, 2014, pp. 63-80.
   Vancouver Kabapınar Y, Sargın T. Öğrencileri ‘Tarihin Mimarları’ Kılma
   Süreci Olarak Tarihsel Maketler ve İşlevleri: “Araştırıyorum,
   Uyguluyorum, Kendimle Gurur Duyuyorum”. Trakya Üniversitesi Eğitim
   Fakültesi Dergisi. 2014;4(1):63-80.
     * Article Files</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-7">
<text>
                                                          Gelişmiş Arama

Bu gurur hepimizin” “Kobe vs. Messi the selfie shootout” reklam filmlerinin
göstergebilimsel çözümlenmesi

   Thumbnail
--

Künye

   Tüccar, S. (2015). Bu gurur hepimizin” “Kobe vs. Messi the selfie
   shootout” reklam filmlerinin göstergebilimsel çözümlenmesi.
   Yayınlanmamış yüksek lisans tezi. İstanbul: İstanbul Arel Üniversitesi
   Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü.

Özet

   “Türk Hava Yolları: “Bu gurur hepimizin”, “Kobe vs. Messi: The selfie
   shootout” reklam filmlerinin göstergebilimsel çözümlenmesi” isimli
   tezimizde son yıllarda kurumsal kimlik oluşturma ve evrenselleşme
   noktasında yaptığı reklamlar, sponsor olduğu kurum ve organizasyonlarla
   adını dünya çapında duyurup, küresel bir şirket olma yolunda emin
   adımlarla ilerlemekte olan Türk Hava Yolları’nın Ekim 2012 tarihinde
   yayınlanan, “Bu gurur hepimizin” isimli reklam filmi ile Aralık 2013
   tarihinde yayınlanan ve “Kobe vs. Messi: The selfie shootout” isimli
   reklam filmleri “yerellik ve ulusallıktan” “evrenselliğe”
   “evrensellikten yerelliğe” açılma yolunda Türk Hava Yolları’nın</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-8">
<text>
   Tüm Reklamları Kapat

Hubris Sendromu: Aşırı Gurur, Özgüven ve Kibir Neden Tehlikelidir? Bunlardan
Nasıl Kurtulabilirsiniz?

   Hubris Sendromu: Aşırı Gurur, Özgüven ve Kibir Neden Tehlikelidir?
   Bunlardan Nasıl Kurtulabilirsiniz? ArtStation
   15 Kasım 2022
   24 dakika
--
   Editör
   Tüm Reklamları Kapat

   Hubris, aşırı düzeyde gurur, özgüven ve kibri içeren bir kişilik
   özelliğidir. Bu çerçevede hubristik kişiler kendi kabiliyetlerini,
   bilgilerini, bir birey olarak önemlerini ve başarıya ulaşma şanslarını
   abartma eğilimindedir. Böylesi insanlar asla yanılmadığına, bütün
--

   Sayılan tüm bu pozisyonlarda hubris, bir kişinin yeteneklerini aşırı
   derecede abartması veya hata yapabileceğine inanmayı reddetmesi gibi
   çeşitli şekillerde aşırı düzeyde gurur, güven veya kendini beğenmişlik
   göstermesi durumunda ortaya çıkar.
   Tüm Reklamları Kapat

--
       daha iyi olduğunu" ilan ederek hubris sergiler.

   Hubris kavramı, "Kibir afettir." gibi modern deyimlere de yansımıştır.
   Bunun yanında Eski Ahit - Özdeyişler Kitabı'nda yer alan "Gurur
   yıkımdan, kibir çöküşten önce gelir." deyişi de modern dünyamızda
   varlığını hala sürdürmektedir.

--
       Krallığı bahşedilir, başından beri gerçek annesi olan kraliçe
       (Jocasta) ile evlenir. Oedipus'un birçok davranışı hubris
       çerçevesinde yorumlanabilir; bunların en önemlileri kaderinden
       kaçmaya çalışması, gerçeği görmesini engelleyen aşırı gururu ve kör
       kahin Tiresias'a kötü davranmasıdır. Gerçek ortaya çıktığında
       Oedipus'un annesi intihar eder ve Oedipus çaresizlik içinde kendini
       kör eder.
--
Hubris Nasıl Gelişir?

   Hubrisin tek bir sebebi olmadığı gibi ana hatlarıyla hubrisin bir
   insanın gururunu, özgüvenini ve kibrini kabartan davranışların
   genellikle kademeli bir süreçle hubrise sebep olduğu düşünülmektedir.
   Örneğin belirli vakalarda ardı ardına kazanılan büyük başarıların,
   kurallardan muaf tutulmanın ve hep övülmenin/hiç eleştirilmemenin
--
   Hubris üç ilişki türü çerçevesinde insanları etkilediği
   söylenebilir:^[30]
     * Bireyin kendisiyle ilişkisi. Bireyin kendisiyle ilişkisi söz konusu
       olduğunda hubris, bir kişinin aşırı özgüven ve gurur geliştirmesine
       sebep olarak bu kişinin yeteneklerini, bilgi birikimini ve başarı
       şansını abartmasına sebep olur.
     * Bireyin diğerleriyle ilişkisi. Bireyin diğerleriyle ilişkisi söz
--

   Hubrisi tanımlamanın en temel yolu ise sezgisel bir yaklaşım
   kullanmaktır. Sezgisel yaklaşım kapsamında hubrisin temel semptomlarına
   (aşırı gurur, özgüven ve kibir) odaklanır ve kendinize bu semptomların
   gözlemlediğiniz kişi tarafından sergilenip sergilenmediğini sorarsınız.

   Bununla beraber, eğer gerekirse daha metodolojik bir yaklaşım da
--
   bağlandığınız vakalarda kullanılmalıdır.

   Genel olarak, sizin veya bir başkasının hubris etkisi altında olup
   olmadığını belirlemek için, hubrisin temel semptomlarını (aşırı gurur,
   özgüven ve kendini önemli görme) ve potansiyel olarak pervasızlık,
   dürtüsellik ve kişinin imajıyla orantısız bir endişe gibi bununla
   ilişkili diğer davranışları da mercek altına almalısınız. Ayrıca, eğer
--
   özellikleri de vardır; bunların en önemlileri yüzsüzlük, tevazu
   eksikliği, hürmet eksikliği ve aşırı hırstır.

Hubristik ve Otantik Gurur Farkı

   Araştırmacılar bazen iki tür gurur ayrımına giderler:^[34], [35]
   Tüm Reklamları Kapat

     * Otantik gurur, olumlu ve arzu edilir türde gururdur; örtük ve açık
       bağlamda yüksek özsaygı, yüksek özgüven, insaf, duygusal istikrar
       ve naziklik ile karakterize edilir.
     * Hubristik gurur, olumsuz ve istenmeyen türde gururdur; düşük örtük
       özsaygı, küstahlık, bencillik, agresyon, utanç ve huysuzluk ile
       karakterize edilir.

--

Özet ve Sonuçlar

     * Hubris aşırı gurur, güven ve kibir içeren bir kişilik özelliğidir.
     * Hubrisinin yaygın belirtileri arasında pervasızlık, istenmeyen
       sonuçları göz önünde bulundurmaya yönelik isteksizlik, kişinin
       yargılarına aşırı güvenmesi, kimseye hesap vermeyeceğine inanması,
--
   Sıkça Sorulan Sorular
   Hubris nedir?

   Hubris, aşırı düzeyde gurur, özgüven ve kibri içeren bir kişilik
   özelliğidir. Bu çerçevede hubristik kişiler kendi kabiliyetlerini,
   bilgilerini, bir birey olarak önemlerini ve başarıya ulaşma şanslarını
   abartma eğilimindedir.
--
   APA7
   MLA9
   Chicago
   I. Shatz, et al. Hubris Sendromu: Aşırı Gurur, Özgüven ve Kibir Neden
   Tehlikelidir? Bunlardan Nasıl Kurtulabilirsiniz?. (15 Kasım 2022).
   Alındığı Tarih: 6 Ocak 2024. Alındığı Yer:
   https://evrimagaci.org/s/13267
   Shatz, I., Karagözoğlu, M. (2022, November 15). Hubris Sendromu: Aşırı
   Gurur, Özgüven ve Kibir Neden Tehlikelidir? Bunlardan Nasıl
   Kurtulabilirsiniz?. Evrim Ağacı. Retrieved January 06, 2024. from
   https://evrimagaci.org/s/13267
   I. Shatz, et al. “Hubris Sendromu: Aşırı Gurur, Özgüven ve Kibir Neden
   Tehlikelidir? Bunlardan Nasıl Kurtulabilirsiniz?.” Edited by Mert
   Karagözoğlu. Evrim Ağacı, 15 Nov. 2022, https://evrimagaci.org/s/13267.
   Shatz, Itamar. Karagözoğlu, Mert. “Hubris Sendromu: Aşırı Gurur,
   Özgüven ve Kibir Neden Tehlikelidir? Bunlardan Nasıl
   Kurtulabilirsiniz?.” Edited by Mert Karagözoğlu. Evrim Ağacı, November
   15, 2022. https://evrimagaci.org/s/13267.</text>
</page> §
<page="tr-9">
<text>    #Hayat Sorgusu » akışı Hayat Sorgusu » yorum akışı Hayat Sorgusu »
   Gurur ve Önyargı’dan Altı Çizilesi 10 Alıntı yorum akışı alternate
   alternate alternate

     * Hakkımızda
--
          + Makarna &amp; Pizza
     * Aklınızda Bulunsun!

   HomeEdebiyatGurur ve Önyargı’dan Altı Çizilesi 10 Alıntı

Gurur ve Önyargı’dan Altı Çizilesi 10 Alıntı

İngiliz Edebiyatı

   Gurur ve Önyargı Alıntı

   Dünyaca ünlü İngiliz yazar Jane Austen, sadece altı eser yazmasına
   rağmen dünya çapında bir hayran kitlesi oluşturmayı başaran nadir
   yazarlardan biri. Zamansız hikayeleri, kültürel sınırları aşarak birçok
   dile çevrilmesinin yanı sıra çok sayıda filme, televizyon dizisine ve
   modern uyarlamaya konu oldu, olmaya devam ediyor…Gurur ve Önyargı
   Alıntı

   Jane Austen, 16 Aralık 1775’te, Steventon, Hampshire’da bir köy
   papazının yedinci çocuğu olarak dünyaya geldi. 1783-85 yılları arasında
   Oxford’da öğrenim gördü. 1787’de ilk romanını yazmaya başladı. 1795’te
   Akıl ve Tutku’yu yazdı. 1797’de kendisini ölümünden sonra dünya çapında
   üne kavuşturacak Gurur ve Önyargı’yı tamamladı ama roman yayıncılar
   tarafından reddedildi. Akıl ve Tutku “Bir Kadın” imzasıyla 1811’de,
   Gurur ve Önyargı 1813’te, Mansfield Park ise 1814’te yayımlanabildi. 18
   Temmuz 1817 tarihinde 41 yaşında yaşama veda etti. Asıl ününe öldükten
   sonra kavuştu. Jane Austen hiç evlenmedi, 41 yıllık hayatını, ev
   hayatına, kadınlara, evliliğe dair olağanüstü detaycı gözlemleriyle
--
   form, hiciv ve ironi ustalığı nedeniyle dünya çapında üne kavuştu ve
   250 yıldır okunmaktan vazgeçilmeyen bir yazar oldu.

   Eserleri: Emma, Gurur ve Önyargı, Mansfield Park, İkna, Akıl ve Tutku,
   Northanger Manastırı ve bitmemiş eseri Sandation.

Gurur ve Önyargı

   Jane Austen bu romanında, 1800’lerin İngiltere’sinde orta ve üst
   sınıfın yaşamlarını, evlenme çağına gelmiş beş kızı bulunan orta sınıfa
--
   bulmaktır. Bu konumdaki bir erkeğin amacı ise kendine yakışan, fiziksel
   olarak güzel, toplumun onadığı eylemleri de “güzel” yapabilen bir eş
   bulmaktır. Durum bu olunca, aşkın tanımının ve kriterlerinin de bu
   koşullar çerçevesinde şekillenmesi kaçınılmaz oluyor. Gurur ve Önyargı
   bir parçası olduğu topluma yönelik üst bir bakışla, ince bir alayla
   yazılmış bir eleştiri romanıdır aslında. Onu okunası kılan da budur.

Gurur ve Önyargı’dan Altı Çizilesi 10 Alıntı

   ♣ Ama bir insanın bugünkü duygularını bilmeden geçmişteki hatalarını
   ortaya dökmek adaletsizlik görünebilirdi.
--
   gün insan karakterinin tutarsızlığına ve akıllı, duygulu görünenlere
   bile güvenilmeyeceğine olan inancım güçleniyor.

   ♣ Gurur ve gösteriş farklı şeyler, ama sık sık aynı anlamda
   kullanılıyorlar. İnsan gösteriş düşkünü olmadan gururlu olabilir. Gurur
   daha çok kendimizle ilgili görüşümüze bağlıdır, gösteriş ise bizim
   hakkımızda başkalarına ne düşündürtmek istediğimize.

--
   Bir başka ünlü kadın yazar ilginizi çeker mi? Mutlaka Okunması Gereken
   Virginia Woolf Kitapları

   Gurur ve Önyargı Alıntı

Bunu paylaş:</text>
</page> §
</lang>
