   #Medium alternate

   Open in app

   (BUTTON) Sign up

   Sign in
   ____________________
   Write

   (BUTTON) Sign up

   Sign in
   (BUTTON)

   Adebola Williams |Africa’s Top Brand Storyteller

   Adebola Williams |Africa’s Top Brand Storyteller
   ·

   Follow
   4 min read
   ·
   Feb 18, 2020

   --
   (BUTTON)

   2
   (BUTTON)

   Listen
   (BUTTON)

   Share

   Pride Won’t Let You Learn

The way pride is ingrained in those who exhibit this sheer arrogance is that
it’s convoluted with a hint of ignorance and a dash of recklessness. In a
less complicated sentence, proud people are ignorant of the consequences of
their speech or actions.

   Most people think of learning as a one-way journey but learning isn’t
   the same as acquiring information or being knowledgeable about a
   subject matter.

     Learning is an experience — for you to be learned means you know,
     you act, you generate results, you tweak appropriately and you
     repeat until you reach a state of equilibrium.

   In a world where everyone is a life-long learner, very few are having
   an experiential exposure to the things they have become aware of. You
   may know of financial intelligence but you only would have learnt it if
   you’re indeed financially intelligent (this, your pocket will tell us
   not the words of your mouth.)

   Knowledge is puffed up. Knowing about something makes you feel so at
   home whenever it’s brought up. It gets so bad for some of us that we
   stop spending time preparing and improving because we’re sure that we
   know.

   Pride comes as a result of knowledge and confidence. You know what you
   know and no one can take away that knowledge. That knowledge boosts
   your confidence level and you’re ready to take on the world but pride
   wants you to take a piss on the world regardless of the beauty other
   people are trying to create on its canvas.

   For you to learn a thing, you’d have to come to terms with the fact
   that you haven’t experienced it. You might have heard and read about
   it, but you haven’t had a real-time meet with it and pride won’t let
   you think this.

     Pride confuses ignorance as just a lack of knowledge issue. But real
     intelligence knows ignorance is also inadequate information or
     knowledge. Ignorance is knowledge that isn’t yielding appropriate
     results.

   If there’s anything you know about, have read about or are studying
   that isn’t generating your envisioned consequence, there’s an ignorance
   gap and pride might not let you accept this sheer and cold truth.

   So, you keep feeding yourself with more updates and latest information
   thinking that staying in touch would somehow create that learning
   experience but by the time you’d found that you were wrong, the guy you
   think lacks self-esteem is far gone because he was humble enough to
   accept his ignorance and put himself to learning.

   The truth about this is that it isn’t only job or skills related; even
   those mindsets and worldviews you hold would remain the same for as
   long as you live if you don’t step out of what you think you know and
   put yourself to learn what is happening.

   People hold different opinions of different things — from frivolous
   disputes such as being a vegetarian to grander matters such as
   providing for their aged parents and they are only one learning
   experience away to coming to a working formula.

   I don’t believe in everyone living their truths — my thought on this is
   people come to terms with the things they have learnt and term it “safe
   space”, they stay there and want others to accept this half-baked and
   one-sided versions of their lives. And because we live in a connected
   world, people can’t mind their businesses.

Don’t let pride shut the door against the life you really want. Call for
help, heck! Scream for it. Get on your knees, put on your dungarees, get your
hands dirty and get to work. Call up someone to teach you if you can. Pay for
that workshop to learn that skill that you know is relevant for where you’re
going. Pay for that consulting session. Send that email. Do the internship.
Speak to someone about the challenges you’re facing.

   In the words of Maria Forleo, everything is figureoutable, but the
   caveat is for only those who are willing to set pride aside and learn.

   Pride can only get you as far as it can but not as far as you want.
   You’re struggling because there’s something or a bunch of stuff you’re
   yet to learn and that’s okay.

   What’s not okay is to be okay with not knowing how to navigate from
   where you are to where you’re going.

   --

   --
   (BUTTON)

   2
   (BUTTON)
   Adebola Williams |Africa’s Top Brand Storyteller
   (BUTTON) Follow
   (BUTTON)

Written by Adebola Williams |Africa’s Top Brand Storyteller

   236 Followers

   The crux of great writing isn’t when an action is taken but when
   transformation happens. I dabble in great writing and the occasional
   transformation.
   (BUTTON) Follow
   (BUTTON)

   Help

   Status

   About

   Careers

   Blog

   Privacy

   Terms

   Text to speech

   Teams
