   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MRVXSHQ

   Skip to main content

   Advertisement
   Advertisement
   SpringerOpen
   (BUTTON) Search
     * Get published
     * Explore Journals
     * Books
     * About
     * My account

   Search all SpringerOpen articles
   ____________________
   (BUTTON) Search
   Psychology of Well-Being

   Theory, Research and Practice
     * Articles
     *

   Design for Pride in the Workplace
   Download PDF
   Download PDF
     * Research
     * Open access
     * Published: 04 July 2016

Design for Pride in the Workplace

     * Yichen Lu^1 &
     * Virpi Roto^1

   Psychology of Well-Being volume 6, Article number: 6 (2016) Cite this
   article
     * 9742 Accesses
     * 14 Citations
     * 50 Altmetric
     * Metrics details

Abstract

Background

   Pride is one of the most meaningful experiences in daily life. Many
   psychological studies emphasize self-oriented and event-based
   achievements as the main sources of pride, whereas work from
   organizational management considers pride as a collective attitude
   derived from other-focused activities and fostered by the sense of
   belongingness. Taking the interdisciplinary aspects of pride into
   account, this article addresses the challenge of how experience design
   can contribute to pride experience in the workplace.

Methods

   By cross-cutting theories from psychology and organizational
   management, this study introduces a framework of dynamic pride. The
   data includes 20 experience design cases that were specifically devoted
   to positive experiences in the context of the metal and engineering
   industry. 33 pride-related experience design goals were analyzed and
   categorized into the framework of pride.

Results

   This study introduces the social and temporal dimensions of pride
   experience at work. The pride-related experience design goals fall into
   four categories: self-focused short-term pride, self-focused long-term
   pride, other-focused short-term pride, and other-focused long-term
   pride. Accordingly, the extracted design strategies of these goals were
   mapped to each type of pride. Most of these design strategies were
   clustered in the categories of self-focused short-term pride and
   other-focused long-term pride.

Conclusions

   This study reveals the design strategies for dynamics of pride in the
   workplace varying from evoking self-achievement in individual
   interactions with tools to maintaining long-term motivation of
   self-competence development, and from highlighting one’s contribution
   in face-to-face collaborative work facilitated by interactive tools to
   fostering co-experience of organizational pride throughout social
   events.

Background

   People feel life holds more meaning when they are motivated by
   cherished goals, aware of self-improvement, involved in healthy
   interpersonal relationships, and loyal to their beliefs. In essence,
   these profound experiences of meaning make life worth living (e.g.,
   Seligman and Csikszentmihalyi 2000). However, the contribution of
   subjective value experiences, especially those of happiness, has not
   gained adequate attention in empirical research until the emergence of
   positive psychology. This new branch of psychology shifted the research
   focus from pathology to optimal human function and flourishing
   (Seligman and Csikszentmihalyi 2000), and it addresses how to enable
   individuals and communities to thrive (Seligman 2011).

   Positive psychology has promoted human flourishing as the ultimate goal
   of scientific research. It has been increasingly applied to other
   disciplines, such as education, policy, management, mental health,
   computer science, engineering, and design (Calvo and Peters 2014, p.
   25). In the field of human–computer interaction, the “positive
   technology” approach was proposed to utilize interactive technologies
   for personal experience optimization (Riva et al. 2012). From the
   perspective of multidisciplinary efforts, Calvo and Peters (2014) refer
   to this area of design and development of technology for psychological
   wellbeing and human potential as “positive computing”.

   Highly connected with technology and engineering, the discipline of
   design (e.g., industrial design, product design, and interaction
   design) has been inspired by the mindset of positive psychology: from
   preventing pain towards promoting happiness, from material sufficiency
   towards experiential value (Pohlmeyer 2012), from immediate response
   towards long-term impact, and from designing solutions towards
   designing possibilities (Desmet and Hassenzahl 2012; Jensen 2014).
   Human flourishing has essentially changed the traditional design
   process, exemplified by recent scholarly advice, such as “think
   experience before product” (Hassenzahl 2010) and “first decide what
   kind of experience to be aimed for and then design certain features to
   evoke the targeted experience” (Desmet and Schifferstein 2011). Design
   approaches, such as experience-based design (Bate and Robert 2007),
   experience-centered design (Wright and McCarthy 2010),
   experience-driven design (Desmet and Schifferstein 2011), positive
   design (Desmet and Pohlmeyer 2013), experience design (Hassenzahl et
   al. 2013) and design for profound experiences (Jensen 2014), prioritize
   quality experience goals over material-level requirements. One typical
   experience design case introduced by Hassenzahl (2010) is Philips
   wake-up light simulating sunrise and bird singing for natural wake-up
   experience in the morning. Combining an alarm clock and a bedside lamp,
   it guides user gently out of a deep sleep phase by progressively
   increasing in light intensity and volume of bird singing. Adding to
   this understanding of experience design, Lu and Roto (2014) defined an
   experience goal addressing in-depth meaning as the starting point and
   driver of design process. Functionality and usability requirements are
   submissive to ultimate experience goals.

   To facilitate the designers’ adaptation to this mindset change, design
   researchers have started to translate knowledge from the field of
   psychology into design approaches. Hassenzahl et al. (2010) selected
   six out of 10 psychological needs (Sheldon et al. 2001) and suggested
   utilizing an “experience pattern” as a tool to distill the essence of
   an experience and transfer it to the targeted context. Desmet (2012)
   introduced a basic set of 25 positive emotion types and proposed six
   main sources of positive emotions in human product interactions. Desmet
   and Pohlmeyer (2013) created a framework suggesting three ingredients
   of design for human flourishing: pleasure, personal significance, and
   virtue. Calvo and Peters (2014) identified the determinant factors of
   wellbeing and provided the strategies to develop a certain factor as
   well as its evaluation methods. For the specific context of the
   industrial work environment, Lu and Roto (2015) borrowed the knowledge
   on the meaning of work (Rosso et al. 2010) and provided high-level
   design strategies for evoking meaningful experiences at work regarding
   work tool design, such as promoting competence for the perception of
   personal significance. These frameworks address positive experiences as
   the root of design, and open the door to design for wellbeing in
   general. However, these theories may arguably appear too essential,
   comprehensive, or concise for designers, and scarcely reach to the fine
   granularity required for design action. The nature of design practice
   remains highly context-dependent and the resulting design is required
   to be concrete and to manifest in details. Therefore, more explicit and
   practicable strategies for experience design are needed regarding a
   specific experience in a targeted context.

   This study aims to investigate design strategies for human flourishing
   with a special focus on pride experience in the workplace, because the
   nature of pride is full of richness regarding meaningful experiences at
   work. According to the positive computing framework (Calvo and Peters
   2014, p. 87), pride covers the dimension from intra-personal pride that
   is experienced within oneself (e.g., feelings of self-achievement) to
   interpersonal pride that is experienced from interaction between
   oneself and others (e.g., perception of respect from others). From the
   perspective of time, pride can be experienced as a moment-by-moment
   positive emotion evoked by unstable events, such as success in a
   challenging task. Also, pride can be considered as a cumulative
   experience based on a long-term rational attitude, such as loyalty
   towards one’s community. In contrast to the richness of pride, current
   design research studies provide limited sources of design for pride,
   which are mainly constrained by the mere scope of product design and
   the perspective of self-achievement and personal distinct possession
   (Desmet 2012).

   Pride as a meaningful experience design goal in the workplace is worth
   investigating further. This study specifically strives to provide
   designers concrete design-for-pride strategies from two angles: the
   literature review on the multiple facets of pride and the empirical
   data on pride embodiment in design concepts. Accordingly, with a
   special focus on workplace, this study addresses two research
   questions: first, to identify what are the dimensions of pride that
   help designers to understand the design space for pride experience;
   second, to distinguish the strategies that designers have used so far
   in the design-for-pride cases. By synthesizing theoretical and
   empirical knowledge, this study proposes a multi-dimensional framework
   of design-mediated pride^Footnote 1 and the design strategies for
   evoking dynamics of pride in the workplace.

   The remaining sections of this paper are structured accordingly: first,
   a theoretical framework of pride based on literature review is
   presented and the need of knowledge on design-mediated pride is
   identified; second, 20 cases that were designed for positive experience
   at work are analyzed based on self-focus to other-focus dimensions and
   short-term to long-term timespans; third, derived from these cases, the
   design strategies for evoking pride experience at work are proposed;
   finally, the insights from these design strategies are discussed.

Literature Review

Psychological Structure of Pride

   Pride is a fundamental human emotion involving a complex
   self-evaluative process (Tracy and Robins 2004). Different from other
   “purely” basic emotions, such as the universally admired emotion of
   love or the universally reviled emotion of jealousy (Williams and
   DeSteno 2009), pride is comprised of two distinct facets. To this
   extent, Tangney (1990) referred to “alpha” pride as pride in self and
   “beta” pride as pride in behavior. Furthermore, Tracy and Robins (2004)
   distinguished between authentic pride and hubristic pride: authentic
   pride is evoked by accomplishment from successful behavior and
   positively related to genuine self-esteem and prosocial traits, whereas
   hubristic pride is more towards self-aggrandizement and positively
   related to narcissism (Tracy et al. 2014). Additionally, the two facets
   of pride differ from each other in cognitive antecedents (Tracy and
   Robins 2007b). Authentic pride is triggered more by unstable, specific,
   and controllable attributions, such as solid results due to hard work,
   whereas hubristic pride is more likely to occur from stable, global,
   and uncontrollable causes, such as feelings of superiority from “who I
   am” (Tracy and Robins 2007b). As this study focuses on designing for
   positive pride, hubristic pride is excluded in the scope of this paper.

Self-Focus Versus Other-Focus

   Both self- and other-focused pride are sources of positive emotion
   (Desmet 2012); moreover, the categories of self and social have been
   identified as wellbeing factors (Calvo and Peters 2014). Self-focused
   pride emphasizes more on interaction within oneself and response to
   oneself whereas other-focused pride accentuates interpersonal
   interaction and the influence between self and others. Most studies
   emphasize pride as a self-conscious and performance-related experience
   triggered by self-efficacy (Tracy and Robins 2007a). Besides its
   elicitation through self-achievement, pride as a fundamental social
   emotion can also be “generated by appraisals when one is responsible
   for a socially valued outcome or for being a socially valued person”
   (Mascolo and Fischer 1995, p. 66). Moral accomplishment and prosocial
   actions are associated with the feeling of pride that may motivate and
   reinforce one’s socially valued conduct (Tangney et al. 2007), such as
   caregiving (Tracy and Robins 2007b), treating others well (Michie
   2009), and positively responding to others’ emotions and needs (Leffel
   et al. 2008). Nakamura’s (2013) related work suggests that compared
   with self-oriented achievement, other-oriented prosocial action has an
   even stronger relationship to pride in both family life and work life.
   Therefore, no matter whether it is triggered by self-oriented task
   accomplishment or other-oriented altruistic activities, pride functions
   as both a “barometer” and “motivator” (McCullough et al. 2001) in
   assessing, regulating, and encouraging one’s behavior toward being
   “good, competent, and virtuous” (Haidt 2003, p. 860).

Short-Term Versus Long-Term

   Pride derived from subjective histories of success may promote
   eagerness towards new anticipatory goals (Katzenbach 2003b). This
   promotion-related eagerness may energize and enhance performance
   (Higgins et al. 2001) and thus renew the experience of pride. As such,
   pride can transition from a temporary emotional experience towards a
   durable attitude of pride. According to the timespans of user
   experience (Roto et al. 2011), a new challenging goal may evoke an
   anticipatory pride for a person with a subjective history of success
   (Higgins et al. 2001); incremental progress in problem solving may
   elicit a momentary pride; when reflecting on an overcome challenge, a
   person may feel an episodic pride in the achievement. These
   performance-related types of pride are short-term, event-specific, and
   ascribed to internal attributes, such as ability or effort (Weiner
   1985). Additionally, another kind of long-term and cognitive
   attitudinal pride exists in organizational studies, which does not rely
   on single events, but cumulative experience related to the overall
   evaluation of a target (Gouthier and Rhein 2011), such as being proud
   of one’s community.

Pride Experience at Work

   Pride is one of the most intense experiences in work life (Katzenbach
   2003b), and work itself is a source of pride (Hodson 1998). Katzenbach
   (2003b) distinguishes institution-building pride which is based on
   largely intangible value and collective interest from self-serving
   pride which is driven by power and materialism.

   Employees can take intrinsic pride in what they make, how they work,
   and whom they work with (Katzenbach 2003b). Experience of pride in
   achievement can be empathized by others in social interaction at work
   and thereby contribute to psychological empowerment and promote future
   successes (Froman 2010). Katzenbach (2003b) introduces a powerful
   “closed loop of energy” derived from pride: better performance
   contributes to business success, and recognized business success
   instills a strong feeling of pride, which fuels future better
   performance. This cycle can be repeatedly applied in organizational
   management.

   Gouthier and Rhein (2011) discern two types of organizational pride:
   one is an emotional pride triggered by successful organizational
   events, and the other is a cognitive and durable attitude of pride
   oriented from the general perception of the organization and employees’
   sense of belonging to the organization (Lea and Webley 1997). On this
   matter, the celebration of successful events, presence of a successful
   company history and culture, and successful advertising campaigns have
   been identified as activators of organizational pride (Gouthier and
   Rhein 2011).

   In summary, pride experience can be derived from self-focused
   achievement and other-focused interpersonal interaction. The richness
   of pride also lies in covering a timespan from a temporary emotion to a
   durable attitude. Pride can be intensively experienced in the
   workplace, and intrinsic pride can be evoked by organizational
   celebration and reputation. From the psychology and organizational
   management literature review, two dimensions of pride were identified
   relevant for design: social dimension from self-focused to
   other-focused and temporal dimension from short-term to long-term
   (Fig. 1).
   Fig. 1
   figure 1

   Social and temporal dimensions of pride experience at work
   Full size image

Design for Pride Experience

   Recently, design researchers have started to explore how design can
   contribute to pride experience. Desmet (2012) introduced pride among
   the 25 positive emotions in the scope of human-product interactions:
   pride may be evoked by owning a unique product, being able to use a
   complex product, achieving something a product facilitates, or
   receiving positive feedback from others concerning the product one
   owns. Based on Desmet’s work, Yoon et al. (2013) developed a tool to
   facilitate emotional granularity in design and specified that pride may
   be triggered by “one’s praiseworthy behavior surpassing internal and
   external standard, and/or one recognizes that others appreciate it”
   (ibid., p.8). Compared with the two dimensions of pride (Fig. 1), pride
   as a collective experience in social interaction (Battarbee and
   Koskinen 2005) and the long-term cumulative experience has not yet been
   fully addressed in existing experience design theories.

   One example of positive design for pride given by Desmet and Pohlmeyer
   (2013) is a designed social interactive activity in which patients with
   dementia can match record pieces in order to play music from their past
   on a turntable with others; thus, a feeling of pride may arise from
   task completion within the social interaction. Moreover, two cases of
   work tool design for meaningful experience at work (Lu and Roto 2015)
   indicate that employees may feel proud of mastering a tool and being
   part of an organization; meanwhile, customers may experience pride when
   they make a right decision on a tool purchase and present manufactured
   tools to their clients. These design examples suggest how designers
   shape the conditions that may evoke a pride experience in a specific
   context. These cases reveal different strategies of designing for
   dynamics of pride. On one hand, those theoretical sources of pride,
   such as achievement, competence, owning something special, and positive
   appraisal from self and others, are clearly embodied in these three
   cases. On the other hand, when referring to a pride experience in a
   specific context, designers seem to employ specific context-adapted
   design strategies, such as utilizing the positive relationship between
   personalized music and a patient with dementia, developing the
   employee’s perceptions of organizational reputation, and highlighting
   one’s contribution of a right decision to an organization.

   Because the nature of design knowledge is highly applicable and
   practice-driven (Cross 2001), besides the theoretical perspective, it
   is meaningful to examine how different types of pride were designed for
   in the concrete cases. This study aims to help designers to discover
   profound and unique sources of pride experience in the specific context
   of the workplace. The design-for-pride strategies employed by the
   collected cases will be identified and analyzed against the theoretical
   dimensions of pride (Fig. 1).

Methods

   This study falls under research for design category of design research,
   since the main aim of this work is to improve design practice (Frayling
   1993). In line with Zimmerman et al. (2010), this research for design
   activity yields to a framework and design recommendations that help
   designers in their work. Besides a literature review, the research data
   is also derived from empirical design studies. The specific design
   approach under study is experience design, in which experience goals
   are the key prerequisite for design activity and defined in the early
   stage of the design process. Experience goals drive the whole design
   process and evolve into the designed artifacts that may evoke the
   targeted experience (Lu and Roto 2015). Thus, this study proposes that
   the design strategies for shaping a certain experience can be distilled
   from the argumentation of the experience goal realization in the design
   concepts. According to the premise of experience design, any kind of
   design that best fulfills the experience goals can be the design
   outcome. In the workplace context, specifically, this may mean a tool,
   service, space, or even an event.

   The authors of this paper studied the reports of 20 experience design
   cases that were conducted in collaboration with masters-level design
   students and seven companies in the metal and engineering industry from
   2012 to 2015. The given design briefs from the different companies
   share the same high-level goal to design for meaningful experience at
   work in heavy industry. The differences among the 20 assignments lie in
   the design contexts varying from heavy machine operation (e.g., crane
   remote control, tugboat console, control room of automation system) to
   the peripheral touchpoints for different stakeholders involved in the
   industrial system (e.g., a mobile application for factory automation
   customers, a mobile sales application for ship components, a mobile
   crane monitoring application).

   In the beginning of the design course, experience design approaches
   were taught to the students by at least one of the authors. Design
   teams were then comprised of two to three master students who worked
   full time on a two-month design assignment from one company. Each
   company assignment was tackled by one team of students. All the teams
   underwent the following design process: familiarizing oneself with the
   target context and users, defining a set of profound experience goals,
   deriving concepts from the determined goals, and finally evaluating
   design concepts against these goals with relevant stakeholders. Most
   teams produced two design concepts: one called ‘incremental’ to address
   the company’s current needs, and another called ‘radical’, which was
   supposed to radically improve the user experience and show what
   experience design could mean without limitations for the outcome. The
   students defined the experience goals based on different sources
   (Kaasinen et al. 2015), and they had the freedom to set up goals that
   would fit their case briefs. In each case, experience goals were
   formatted into a word or a short phrase for convenient communication
   among different stakeholders. There was no special rule with regard to
   how many experience goals the students should define, whereas the
   relations between a set of experience goals were expected for
   clarification. Involved throughout the whole design process, the
   company personnel were available for providing information and
   comments. At least one of the authors followed these cases by arranging
   weekly meetings with the design teams and reading their design diaries.
   The students were not given special guidance for designing for pride,
   as pride was not a presumed design goal in any of the assignments.
   Rather, the students were trained to identify multiple profound
   experience goals for the targeted workplace contexts. Only after a
   majority of cases ended up pride-related experience goals, the authors
   got interested in a deeper study of pride experience at work. Hence the
   analysis of the design cases was retrospective and the final reports of
   the student teams served as the primary data source for this part of
   the research.

Four Design Case Examples

   The design case description can provide better understanding of the
   experience design in the industrial workplace context. Due to the
   limited length of this article, this section will shortly describe four
   example cases that tackled pride from different perspectives.

   The customer for the first experience design case was Kemppi, a
   manufacturer of welding machines. The task was to design a mobile
   application with which people (e.g. welding students) could train their
   welding skills with welding without the actual welding equipment, but
   rather with the help of a welding simulator game. The design students
   drew three experience goals: Pleasure (the joy of welding),
   Self-motivation (willingness to practice constantly), and Pride (about
   their skills, the results, and the welding itself). The Pleasure goal
   was tackled by gamification features; Self-motivation by sharing and
   communicating the progress; and Pride by a physical certificate after
   completing all levels of training (Fig. 2). The incremental concept was
   a mobile application as suggested in the assignment, and the radical
   concept focused on the best possible pride experience by inviting
   selected application users to showcase their real-life welding skills
   in an event similar to an art exhibition.
   Fig. 2
   figure 2

   A physical certificate was designed to enhance pride after completing
   welding training
   Full size image

   Another kind of experience design case was completed for Konecranes,
   focusing on the maintenance services of cranes at waste-to-energy
   plants. After studying the employees at the plant, the students set
   goals for the crane maintenance service experience. Of the three goals,
   two were related to the pride experience: Worthiness (an affirmation of
   their importance as a customer) and Belongingness (a meaningful
   relationship with Konecranes employees). The radical concept is called
   Mood sphere, consisting of a light ball at the plant and an identity
   badge for each employee. Both the badge and the ball show the status of
   the crane and the related Konecranes service. The crane operators can
   interact with the ball to communicate their feelings about the crane
   and its service (Fig. 3).
   Fig. 3
   figure 3

   A light ball communicates the status of a crane to the crane operator,
   and the operator can send emotional messages to Konecranes service by
   interacting with the ball
   Full size image

   In the third case, students were asked to redesign a tugboat steering
   simulator for Rolls-Royce Marine. The objective was to create a quality
   experience both for the salesperson demonstrating the steering
   properties with different thruster options and for the customer wanting
   to see its functionality. The task for the students was focused on the
   physical design of the simulator, consisting of two big joystick
   devices and a display. The practical goal was to enable a portable
   system. The experience goals were derived with the salesperson’s
   experience in mind, since the salesperson is the primary user of the
   simulator. The students utilized the metaphor of Q from the James Bond
   movies and set three experience goals that all were related to the
   experience of pride: Sense of directing (directing the situation by
   suggesting possible solutions), Expertise (presenting oneself as a
   professional, technical expert), and Pride (proudly representing the
   company). The design strategy to fulfill the Sense of directing goal
   was to boost the feeling of control; Expertise goal by using impressive
   technology; and Pride by drawing attention with a novel way of
   presentation. The radical solution proposed by the students was a
   simulator vehicle, similar to a Segway, with the steering joysticks
   mounted on it (Fig. 4).
   Fig. 4
   figure 4

   A salesperson presenting in front of an audience by driving a tugboat
   steering simulator
   Full size image

   The last experience design task reported here was assigned by a factory
   automation company, Fastems, who wanted to extend their training center
   into a visitor space. In this case, the company already had defined
   company-wide experience goals (Roto et al. 2015) for experience
   development projects, from which the students derived four experience
   goals for this specific case. One of these was Participation for pride,
   which aims to foster a pride experience in customers by being able to
   influence the development activities at Fastems. In addition to the
   physical space design in the center of the factory activities, students
   proposed an interactive table as a collaboration platform• in the space
   (Fig. 5).
   Fig. 5
   figure 5

   A physical space for visitors (left) and an interactive table for
   collaboration (right)
   Full size image

Selecting Pride-Related Experience Goals

   To decide whether a case is an endeavor for evoking a pride experience
   at work, the authors analyzed the final reports of all student teams,
   and examined the description of each experience goal setting and its
   infusion into a design concept. Compared to the existing guidance on
   designing for pride, this study adopted a broader and deeper
   understanding of pride based on the literature study. Besides the
   experience goals literally labeled with “pride”, those having the
   potential to elicit pride experience were also taken into account as
   pride-related experience goals and their relevance to pride is
   indicated in Table 1. The researchers interpreted the implication of
   these goals situated in the design context rather than their original
   meaning. For example, in the Kemppi case introduced above, pride as a
   long-term experience is based on a momentary pleasurable pride and
   episodic evaluative pride in self-motivation and thus Pleasure and
   Self-motivation are grouped into pride-related experience goals. On the
   other hand, if the experience goals and their embodiment in the final
   concepts both have little connection with pride, then these goals are
   excluded in this study.
   Table 1 The experience goals with high relevance to pride
   Full size table

   In these 20 design cases, altogether 61 experience goals were
   identified and more than half (33) of them were pride-related.
   Meanwhile, only two cases out of 20 have little connection with pride:
   one stressed Discovery as an experience in taking an elevator; the
   other focused on a Trust experience evoked by the designed cover for an
   expensive ship component placed outside.

Analyzing Pride-Related Experience Goals Against Two Dimensions of Pride

   Each goal was then postulated to fall into the category either
   long-term or short-term experience. Two researchers (the authors)
   conducted the goal categorization independently, resulting to an
   inter-rater agreement of 87.88 %. Consensus was reached by discussion.
   These pride-related experience goals were also categorized along the
   self-focus or other-focus dimension. The inter-rater agreement in this
   case was 72.73 %, and the consensus was reached by discussion.

   Combining the two categorizations, each selected experience goal was
   supposed to belong to one of these four groups: self-focused short-term
   pride, self-focused long-term pride, other-focused short-term pride,
   and other-focused long-term pride. Accordingly, the design strategies
   used by the students for different types of pride were compared within
   and across categories.

Results

   According to the social dimension, 17 out of 33 pride-related
   experience goals are self-focused, whereas the remaining 16 goals are
   other-focused. Along the temporal dimension, 15 out of 33 pride-related
   experience goals are short-term, and the rest are long-term. The
   experience goals for self-focus short-term pride and other-focus
   long-term pride both take one-third of all the pride-related experience
   goals whereas other-focus short-term pride was the least designed for.

   As shown in Fig. 6, different design strategies are summarized and
   grouped along the social and temporal dimensions of pride.
   Fig. 6
   figure 6

   Design strategies sorted by two dimensions of pride
   Full size image

Design for Self-Focus Short-Term Pride

   10 out of the 33 pride-related experience goals are both self-focus and
   short-term. The design strategies are distilled into three aspects:
   enhancing self-respect, enhancing self-efficacy, and promoting one’s
   goal achievement.

Enhancing Self-Respect

   Three experience goals indicate that enhancing the feeling of
   self-respect is a pathway to pride experience. Thus, providing users
   with a distinctive interactive tool or workspace and strengthening
   their unique expertise may increase self-awareness of users’ own
   professionalism, which leads to self-respect enhancement. For instance,
   in the Rolls-Royce Marine case introduced above, the salesperson drives
   in front of the customers a special and attractive vehicle that
   demonstrates the same technology in the tugboat steering. This unique
   way of presentation reflects the professional engineering knowledge of
   a tugboat salesperson.

Enhancing Self-Efficacy

   Five experience goals suggest that evoking the feeling of control,
   improvement, and autonomy can enable momentary pride experience. For
   example, providing an overview of all the machines’ data may enhance a
   manager’s feeling of control; boosting performances with a new
   application may enhance a worker’s feeling of competence; providing
   flexible options of the control room layout may enhance an operator’s
   feeling of work autonomy.

Promoting One’s Goal Achievement

   Two experience goals indicate goal achievement promotion may induce
   anticipatory pride. For example, rewarding a learner’s practice of
   welding with a tangible certificate and fueling one’s intrinsic
   interest in doing something desirable may be a pathway to pride
   promotion.

Design for Self-Focus Long-Term Pride

   Seven out of the 33 pride-related experience goals are designed for
   self-focused long-term pride. They stress three aspects: fostering
   self-worth, developing one’s competence, and developing and maintaining
   one’s interest.

Fostering a Sense of Self-Worth

   Three goals indicate that activating one in organizational events,
   letting one work on what one is passionate about, and maintaining a
   positive self-status may foster self-worth, which would thus result in
   a durable self-focused pride. For example, in the case of Konecranes,
   the end users are often invited to a series of organizational events
   that may increase one’s awareness of their own value; making one
   passionate about one's work may result in self-actualization in a
   society; maintaining a decent status in a smooth transfer from work to
   retirement may increase one’s self-esteem.

Developing One’s Competence

   Two goals indicate that challenging one to the next level of skills and
   letting one see how they perform compared to others may produce a
   durable and self-focused pride. In the case of Kemppi, the app provides
   gamification elements and makes the long-term skill improvement
   visible, which may in turn keep learners practicing through enjoyment
   of welding and competition with others.

Developing and Maintaining One’s Interest

   Two goals from two cases indicate that motivating users with rewards as
   in games and keeping users’ inspirations in a series of organizational
   events may result in self-focus long-term pride. In the case of Kemppi,
   the app keeps an update of unlocked features to encourage learners onto
   the next practice level; a company can hold competitions, workshops,
   and seminars to maintain one’s interest and ambition and can thus
   accumulate one’s long-term pride.

Design for Other-Focus Short-Term Pride

   Five out of the 33 pride-related experience goals are both other-focus
   and short-term. They emphasize two aspects: enabling one’s influence in
   social interaction and evoking a sense of belongingness to an
   organization.

Enabling One’s Influence in Social Interaction

   Two experience goals indicate that fueling one’s leadership in social
   interaction and revealing one’s influence on decision-making may result
   in other-focused short-term pride. In the Rolls–Royces case introduced
   above, the special vehicle may guide others’ attention and provide a
   salesperson with a sense of directing, thus facilitate the
   salesperson’s leadership in interacting with the audience. Moreover,
   enabling the customers’ involvement and hence developing awareness of
   their impact on decision-making may build pride in customers through
   social interaction.

Evoking a Sense of Belongingness to an Organization

   Three experience goals indicate that facilitating a connection with
   others, sharing happy moments, and stimulating inspiration and
   appreciation from others may lead to the feeling of other-focus
   short-term pride. For example, the output of an interactive system at
   the entrance of the office may evoke employees’ belongingness to a
   company by worldwide company information dissemination and
   entertainment activity arrangement. Besides this, organizational events
   may have the similar impact on stakeholder engagement by stimulating
   their inspiration.

Design for Other-focus Long-Term Pride

   11 out of the 33 experience goals are designed for other-focus
   long-term pride. These goals focus on two main aspects: fostering a
   sense of belonging to an organization and revealing long-term impacts
   of one’s contribution to others.

Fostering a Sense of Belonging to an Organization

   Six experience goals address the issue that enabling human-to-human
   interaction in organizational events, nurturing organizational
   heritage, and fostering immediate sharing of success may instill a
   sense of belonging to an organization and thus lead to other-focus
   long-term pride. For example, human-to-human interaction at work
   provides the feeling of camaraderie, the appreciation between each
   other, and the historical success of a company, which all contribute to
   collective pride towards an organization.

Revealing the Long-term Impact of One’s Contribution to Others

   Five experience goals indicate that other-focused long-term pride can
   be produced by providing transparency on one's idea development, making
   the positive consequences of one's contributions visible to others, and
   making one’s positive progress visible to others. For example, the
   visualization of a process in which one’s work is further developed and
   implemented by others, and the positive confirmation of one’s critical
   decisions for an organization from a long-term perspective may increase
   one’s stable pride evoked by others.

Discussion

   Workplace as a social space provides a rich context for stimulation,
   development, and maintenance of the dynamics of pride. Design for pride
   in the workplace is a powerful, yet little utilized approach to keeping
   the closed loop of energy up for a successful business. By
   cross-cutting theories from psychology and organizational management,
   this study first introduces the social and temporal dimensions of
   pride. Based on the theoretical framework of pride, the empirical data
   from 20 experience design cases reveals contextualized and concrete
   design strategies for the dynamics of pride experience at work. The
   design implication drawn from these design strategies is given as
   follows.

   The design strategies for self-focused short-term pride is in line with
   the sources of pride in human-production interaction (Desmet 2012):
   self-efficacy enhancement is related to “using the tool induces pride
   of task performance”; self-respect enhancements matches with “owning
   the tool induces pride of one’s expertise”; and goal achievement
   promotion fits with “the tool enables results that induces pride of
   one’s task performance”. To evoke such pride much depends on a
   well-designed momentary interaction between tool and user, for example,
   by measuring and visualizing incremental performance improvement in
   time.

   When moving to a self-focus long-term pride, the design strategies
   adapt to the long-term effect, such as motivation maintenance,
   competence development and fostering self-worth. The key to designing
   for this type of pride is to explore and personalize the individual
   intrinsic meaning and to hold it longer, which is in line with positive
   design for personal significance, i.e., not focusing on the momentary
   effect, but on one’s personal goals and aspirations (Desmet and
   Pohlmeyer 2013).

   Besides the facilitation of work performance enhancement, interactive
   tools can also be designed for other-focused short-term pride to assist
   users’ leadership or involvement in momentary social interaction, such
   as sharing one’s ideas by instant prototyping for collaborative
   discussion. Additionally, seeing others’ responses to one’s
   contribution may happen in organizational events, such as competitions,
   workshops, and seminars. These kinds of events may strengthen one’s
   connection with others, trigger social interaction, and stimulate each
   other’s creativity, in which co-experience of pride can be evoked
   within an organization.

   Other-focused long-term pride is highly related to entrepreneurial
   spirit and loyalty. Company leaders aim to instill such pride into
   their employees and customers. The implications from organizational
   management can enter into design strategy by fostering a sense of
   belonging to an organization through activities (Gouthier and Rhein
   2011). Belongingness is an other-oriented communion, which is about
   sharing common social identity and strengthening interpersonal
   connectedness (Rosso et al. 2010). Thus, sharing a positive identity is
   an important source of the other-focused pride, especially in
   organizational work contexts. Meanwhile, the visualization of progress
   and metrics can enable employees to track their own and others’ work
   (Katzenbach 2003b), and thereby reveal the long-term impact of one’s
   contribution to others, which is also a key design strategy for
   other-focused pride.

   These four types of pride apparently connect to each other and work
   together. For example, one’s pride derived from the pleasure of
   interaction with a work tool may bring out both enjoyment and
   self-enhancement at work. The pleasurable pride may serve as an
   intrinsic motivator for long-term good work performance. The
   visualization of one’s positive work results and progress may evoke
   others’ appreciation. In the long run, the collective impacts of
   everyone’s incremental contribution accumulate and sustain
   organizational success and thereby lead to a durable pride towards
   one’s organization.

   In conclusion, this paper identifies two main trends in designing for
   pride experience in the workplace: designers can uplift their vision
   from self-focused and achievement-oriented interaction with a tool
   towards fostering engagement-oriented interaction with people, and from
   event-based emotional pride in momentary interaction towards a
   long-term organizational attitude of pride. Meanwhile, the role of a
   tool becomes that of an interactive facilitator for co-experience of
   pride in activities rather than the passive means of task completion.

   This study opens the discussion that experience design researchers need
   to study external knowledge in order to broaden the understanding of
   targeted experience, associate multiple dimensions of such experience
   with the design context, and then transfer the constructed knowledge
   into experience design strategy for concept generation.

Limitation and Future Development

   This study is a primary exploration on how to design for a specific
   positive experience in a targeted context. From the study approach
   perspective, the design strategies distilled from the triangulation
   between theories and empirical data were born with considerable
   validity which lies in the traceable evidences from available knowledge
   and concrete design cases. On the other hand, however, the predefined
   four-type-pride framework might limit the variety of the strategies,
   because there might be valuable special strategies that could be
   excluded by the scope of this framework. This limitation reflects that
   it could be a danger if designers overly rely on the available
   strategies and thus they might be restricted by the structured
   framework. In this sense, these identified patterns should serve more
   for understanding, inspiring and framing new themes, instead of fixing
   designers’ mindset.

   From the data perspective, it is based on the collection of 20 student
   design cases in one design department from 2012 to 2015, which
   determines the specificity and limitation of this study. The
   interference between different design teams and the bias influenced by
   the earlier cases may be hardly avoided in the design process, which
   may lead to limitations of experience goal setting and idea generation.
   Although the fresh eyes of students may generate novel ideas and
   explore new possibilities, their limited breadth of mature design
   experience for the workplace may also result in some shallow design
   concepts. Moreover, a 2-month project can hardly include a long-term
   evaluation of design results.

   From the finding validity perspective, the pride experience design
   strategies were presented as backup tools in the latest course but
   without guiding the students to use them. Compared with previous cases,
   pride was defined more towards durable pride and organizational pride
   in the recent cases. More importantly, inspired by these cases, the
   companies have gradually changed their mindset from focusing on
   usability towards prioritizing experience, and have recognized pride
   can be designed from not only interaction quality in task but also
   organizational impact. This impact was manifested in the industrial
   seminar when two companies presented and referred the student cases as
   their new path to experience design innovation. At least one
   design-for-pride case was implemented entirely from the students’
   concepts, and got positive feedback from the company’s clients.

   Future studies will focus on at least three directions. First, it is
   worth adding case diversity to the data collection: cases from
   different programs in different research institutes or companies are
   needed for both qualitative and quantitative studies to assess whether
   the two dimensions of design for pride can be applied to a large number
   of design cases. Second, there is a definite need to trace the real
   implementation of certain strategies in the client companies to
   identify the long-term impact on both workers’ subjective wellbeing and
   business development. Third, it is also meaningful to observe designing
   for pride in other domains and to identify what kind of strategies are
   common patterns and to what degree the differences of contexts lead to
   the specificity of design strategies.

Notes

    1. Thanks to the anonymous Reviewer 1.

References

     * Bate P, Robert G. Bringing user experience to healthcare
       improvement: The concepts, methods and practices of
       experience-based design. Radcliffe Publishing; 2007.
     * Battarbee K, Koskinen I. Co-experience: user experience as
       interaction. CoDesign. 2005;1(1):5–18.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Calvo RA, Peters D. Positive computing: technology for wellbeing
       and human potential. Cambridge: MIT Press; 2014.
       Google Scholar
     * Cross Nigel. Designerly ways of knowing: design discipline versus
       design science. Des Issues. 2001;17(3):49–55.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Desmet PM. Faces of product pleasure: 25 positive emotions in
       human-product interactions. Int J Design. 2012;6(2):2012.
       Google Scholar
     * Desmet PMA, Schifferstein HNJ. From floating wheelchairs to mobile
       car parks: a collection of 35 experience-driven design projects.
       Den Haag: Eleven Publishers; 2011.
       Google Scholar
     * Desmet PM, Pohlmeyer AE. Positive design: an introduction to design
       for subjective well-being. Int J Design. 2013;7(3):2013.
       Google Scholar
     * Desmet P, Hassenzahl M. Towards happiness: possibility-driven
       design. In: Oliveira JV, Zacarias M, editors. Human-computer
       interaction: the agency perspective. Heidelberg: Springer Berlin;
       2012. p. 3–27.
       Chapter  Google Scholar
     * Frayling C. Research in art and design. Royal Col Art.
       1993;1(1):1–5.
       Google Scholar
     * Froman L. Positive psychology in the workplace. J Adult Dev.
       2010;17(2):59–69.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Gouthier MH, Rhein M. Organizational pride and its positive effects
       on employee behavior. J Serv Manag. 2011;22(5):633–49.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Haidt J. The moral emotions. In: Davidson RJ, Scherer KR, Goldsmith
       HH, editors. Handbook of affective sciences. Oxford: Oxford
       University Press; 2003. p. 852–70.
       Google Scholar
     * Hassenzahl M. Experience design: technology for all the right
       reasons. Synth Lecture Hum-Cent Inform. 2010;3(1):1–95.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Hassenzahl M, Eckoldt K, Diefenbach S, Laschke M, Lenz E, Kim J.
       Designing moments of meaning and pleasure. Experience design and
       happiness. Int J Design. 2013;7(3):21–31.
       Google Scholar
     * Hassenzahl M, Diefenbach S, Göritz A. Needs, affect, and
       interactive products-facets of user experience. Interact Comput.
       2010;22(5):353–62.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Higgins ET, Friedman RS, Harlow RE, Idson LC, Ayduk ON, Taylor A.
       Achievement orientations from subjective histories of success:
       promotion pride versus prevention pride. Eur J Soc Psychol.
       2001;31(1):3–23.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Hodson R. Pride in task completion and organizational citizenship
       behaviour: evidence from the ethnographic literature. Work Stress.
       1998;12(4):307–21.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Jensen JL. Designing for profound experiences. Design. Issues.
       2014;30(3):39–52.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Kaasinen E, Roto V, Hakulinen J, Heimonen T, Jokinen JP, Karvonen
       H, Turunen M. Defining user experience goals to guide the design of
       industrial systems. Behaviour Inform Technol. 2015
       (ahead-of-print).
     * Katzenbach J. Pride: a strategic asset. Strategy Leadersh.
       2003a;31(5):34–8.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Katzenbach J. Why pride matters more than money: the power of the
       world’s greatest motivational force. New York City: Crown Business;
       2003b.
       Google Scholar
     * Lea SEG, Webley P. Pride in economic psychology. J Econ Psychol.
       1997;18(2–3):323–40.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Leffel GM, Fritz ME, Stephens MR. Who cares? generativity and the
       moral emotions, part 3. A social intuitionist "ecology of virtue".
       J psychol Theol. 2008;36(3).
     * Lu Y, Roto V. Towards meaning change: experience goals driving
       design space expansion. In: Proceedings of the 8th Nordic
       conference on human–computer interaction: fun, fast, foundational.
       New York City: ACM; 2014. p. 717–26.
     * Lu Y, Roto V. Evoking meaningful experiences at work—a positive
       design framework for work tools. J Eng Design. 2015
       (ahead-of-print).
     * Mascolo MF, Fischer KW. Developmental transformations in appraisals
       for pride, shame, and guilt. In: Tangney JP, Fischer KW, editors.
       Self-conscious emotions: the psychology of shame, guilt,
       embarrassment, and pride, xvii. New York: Guilford Press; 1995. pp
       64–113.
     * McCullough ME, Kirkpatrick S, Emmons RA, Larson D. Is gratitude a
       moral affect? Psychol Bull. 2001;127:249–66.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
     * Michie S. Pride and gratitude how positive emotions influence the
       prosocial behaviors of organizational leaders. J Leadersh Organ
       Stud. 2009;15(4):393–403.
     * Nakamura J. Pride and the experience of meaning in daily life. J
       Posit Psychol. 2013;8(6):555–67.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Pohlmeyer AE. Design for happiness. Interfaces. 2012;92:8–11.
     * Riva G, Banos RM, Botella C, Wiederhold BK, Gaggioli A. Positive
       technology: using interactive technologies to promote positive
       functioning. Cyberpsychol Behav Soc Network. 2012;15(2):69–77.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Rosso BD, Dekas KH, Wrzesniewski A. On the meaning of work: a
       theoretical integration and review. Research Organ Behav.
       2010;30:91–127.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Roto V, Law E, Vermeeren APOS, Hoonhout J. User experience white
       paper. Bringing clarity to the concept of user experience. 2011.
     * Roto V, Lu Y, Nieminen H, Tutal E. Designing for user and brand
       experience via company-wide experience goals. In: Proceedings of
       the 33rd annual ACM conference extended abstracts on human factors
       in computing systems ACM. 2015. p. 2277–82.
     * Seligman M. Flourish: a new understanding of happiness,
       well-being-and how to achieve them. Boston: Nicholas Brealey Pub;
       2011.
       Google Scholar
     * Seligman MEP, Csikszentmihalyi M. Positive psychology: an
       introduction. Am Psychol. 2000;55:5–14.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
     * Sheldon KM, Elliot AJ, Kim Y, Kasser T. What is satisfying about
       satisfying events? testing 10 candidate psychological needs. J Pers
       Soc Psychol. 2001;80(2):325–39.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
     * Tangney JP. Assessing individual differences in proneness to shame
       and guilt: development of the self-conscious affect and attribution
       inventory. J Pers Soc Psychol. 1990;59(1):102.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
     * Tangney JP, Stuewig J, Mashek DJ. Moral emotions and moral
       behavior. Annu Rev Psychol. 2007;58:345.
     * Tracy JL, Weidman AC, Cheng JT, Martens JP. The fundamental emotion
       of success, power, and status. In: Tugade M, Shiota M, Kirby L,
       editors. Handbook of positive emotions. New York: The Guilford
       Press; 2014. p. 2014.
       Google Scholar
     * Tracy JL, Robins RW. Putting the self into self-conscious emotions:
       a theoretical model. Psychol Inq. 2004;15:103–25.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Tracy JL, Robins RW. Emerging insights into the nature and function
       of pride. Curr Dir Psychol Sci. 2007a;16(3):147–50.
       Article  Google Scholar
     * Tracy JL, Robins RW. The psychological structure of pride: a tale
       of two facets. J Pers Soc Psychol. 2007b;92:506–25.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
     * Weiner B. An attributional theory of achievement motivation and
       emotion. Psychol Rev. 1985;92(4):548.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
     * Williams LA, DeSteno D. Pride adaptive social emotion or seventh
       sin? Psychol Sci. 2009;20(3):284–8.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
     * Yoon J, Desmet PMA, Pohlmeyer AE. Embodied typology of positive
       emotions: the development of a tool to facilitate emotional
       granularity in design. Presented at the 5th international congress
       of international association of sciences of design research, Tokyo,
       Japan. 2013. p. 1195–206.
     * Wright P, McCarthy J. Experience-centred design. Designers, Users,
       and Communities in Dialogue. San Rafael, CA, USA: Morgan Claypool.
       2010.
     * Zimmerman J, Stolterman E, Forlizzi J. An analysis and critique of
       research through design: towards a formalization of a research
       approach. DIS. 2010;2010:310–9.
       Google Scholar

   Download references

Authors’ contributions

   YL did the literature review. Both YL and VR set up the experience
   design courses, collected the design cases, analysed the data,
   developed the framework and wrote the manuscript together. Both authors
   read and approved the final manuscript.

Competing interests

   This research was carried out as part of the Finnish Metals and
   Engineering Competence Cluster (FIMECC)’s UXUS programme funded by
   participating organisations and Tekes.

Author information

Authors and Affiliations

    1. Dept of Design, School of Arts, Design and Architecture, Aalto
       University, Hämeentie 135C, Helsinki, Finland
       Yichen Lu & Virpi Roto

   Authors
    1. Yichen Lu
       View author publications
       You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar
    2. Virpi Roto
       View author publications
       You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar

Corresponding author

   Correspondence to Yichen Lu.

Rights and permissions

   Open Access This article is distributed under the terms of the Creative
   Commons Attribution 4.0 International License
   (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), which permits
   unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium,
   provided you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the
   source, provide a link to the Creative Commons license, and indicate if
   changes were made.

   Reprints and permissions

About this article

   Check for updates. Verify currency and authenticity via CrossMark

Cite this article

   Lu, Y., Roto, V. Design for Pride in the Workplace. Psych Well-Being 6,
   6 (2016). https://doi.org/10.1186/s13612-016-0041-7

   Download citation
     * Received: 23 September 2015
     * Accepted: 31 May 2016
     * Published: 04 July 2016
     * DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s13612-016-0041-7

Share this article

   Anyone you share the following link with will be able to read this
   content:
   (BUTTON) Get shareable link

   Sorry, a shareable link is not currently available for this article.

   (BUTTON) Copy to clipboard

   Provided by the Springer Nature SharedIt content-sharing initiative

Keywords

     * Experience design
     * Pride experience
     * Design strategy
     * Self-focus
     * Other-focus
     * Short-term
     * Long-term

   Download PDF

Associated content

   Collection

Positive Computing

   Advertisement
   Advertisement
     * Support and Contact
     * Jobs
     * Language editing for authors
     * Scientific editing for authors
     * Leave feedback

     * Terms and conditions
     * Privacy statement
     * Accessibility
     * Cookies

Follow SpringerOpen

     * SpringerOpen Twitter page
     * SpringerOpen Facebook page

   By using this website, you agree to our Terms and Conditions, Your US
   state privacy rights, Privacy statement and Cookies policy. Your
   privacy choices/Manage cookies we use in the preference centre.
   Springer Nature

   © 2024 BioMed Central Ltd unless otherwise stated. Part of Springer
   Nature.
